Handbook of Academic Regulations 2025
Owned By: Academic Council
Maintained by: Academic Registrar’s Department
Last updated: April 2025
Approved on: June 2025
Effective from: 1 August 2025
Review date: April 2026
Part 1: Context
Section 1: Introduction
1.1. This handbook contains all the academic regulations for taught courses leading to awards of
the University of Westminster delivered on the University’s campuses and through distance
learning and collaborative provision. These are set out in Parts 1 to 6 of this handbook.
1.2. The
regulations and processes, which govern research degrees, are set out in the Research
Degree Regulations and Handbook and the Research Framework .
1.3. The
following documents also contain valuable information and can be accessed online:
Quality Assurance and Enhancement Handbook
Student Charter
Student Code of Conduct
University Calendar
Collaborations Handbook
It
is a student’s responsibility to ensure they have read and are familiar with the university
regulations .
Note: I
f a student or member of staff has any queries regarding the regulations, they should
contact the Academic Registrar’s Department .
1.4. In
the UK the Office for Students (OfS) is responsible for regulating the quality and standards of
a higher education provider’s courses. The OfS’s regulatory framework provides a definitive
reference point for all those involved in delivering higher education which leads to an award
from, or is validated by a UK higher education provider. It makes clear what institutions are
required to do, what they can expect of each other, and what the general public can expect of all higher education providers. These expectations express matters of key principle that have
been identified as important for the assurance of quality and academic standards and are
reflected within the University of Westminster Handbook of Academic Regulations .
1.5. The
University of Westminster academic regulations govern all taught courses of more than
four weeks’ full-time or 60 hours part-time duration and all courses that lead to a validated
named award of the University or of an external validating agency.
1.6. The
University requires that all taught courses be delivered wholly in accordance with the
curriculum and award-specific regulations approved in the definitive course handbook by a
University Validation Panel or Review Panel on behalf of Academic Council, taking account of any modifications that have been approved by the processes described in the Quality and
Assurance and Enhancement Handbook.
1.7. The
language of instruction and assessment for all programmes of study leading to an award of
the University of Westminster is English unless otherwise approved by the University Validation
Panel or Review Panel on behalf of Academic Council. An example of such an exception is
when the subject or programme of study is another language.
1.8. The
Teaching Committee is a sub-committee of Academic Council, with the authority to
consider issues relating to academic quality, standards and regulations. A report of each
meeting is submitted formally to Academic Council.
1.9. The
academic regulations are reviewed by the Teaching Committee, which reports to Academic
Council. All changes to the academic regulations are subject to approval by Academic Council .
1.10. In case of dispute about the interpretation of these regulations, the decision of the Academic
Registrar shall be final.
1.11. We are committed to ensuring our websites and content is digitally accessible according to the Public Sector Bodies Accessibility Regulations (2018). This policy is published on our website
Academic regulations | University of Westminster, London; and can be requested in a range of
formats e.g. Word, PDF, plain text, alternative formats such as large print or Braille.
Part 1: Context
Section 2: Statutes and Principles
The U
niversity of Westminster Statutes and Principles were approved in 1992 when University status
as an awarding body was granted by Privy Council on behalf of the UK Government.
A note on terminology
2.1. The
term ‘ programme of study’ is used to denote an approved set of modules by which a
student may obtain a specified award of the University.
The term ‘ course’ is used to denote a subject or one or more discipline-based sets of modules
having a single or closely-related focus, leading to a common award and being administered as
a single structure.
The term ‘ module’ is used to denote a discrete study element within a course.
The term ‘course scheme ’ is used to denote the form and content of a course as presented to
and validated and approved by the University.
The term ‘ course programme ’ is used to denote a larger grouping of courses.
Each
student of the University will therefore follow a programme of study which will be
composed of a number of modules within a course or course programme.
The term ‘ academic programme’ is used to denote in the widest sense academic activities
relating to a course, a subject or a discipline within the University.
The term ‘ doctoral research programme ’ is used to denote a registered programme of
independent research, with associated training and development activities, leading to a
research degree award of the University
Note:
A definitions section is included at Part 7: Definitions of the regulations. This provides a
useful guide for students and staff on commonly used terminology.
Awards of the University
Awards
2.2. The University will make available programmes of study which lead to awards at levels of
achievement as described below:
­ Certificate (sub-degree)
­ Diploma (sub-degree)
­ Foundation Degree
­ Degree
­ Degree with Honours
­ Graduate Certificate
­ Graduate Diploma
­ Postgraduate Certificate
­ Postgraduate Diploma
­ Master’s Degree
­ Doctor of Philosophy
­ Master of Philosophy
­ Professional Doctorate
A full list of the University’s awards is given in Annexe 1.
2.3. The University will award higher doctorates.
2.4. The University will confer honorary degrees upon persons whom it deems to have made major
contributions to the field of education, business, culture, creative work, public service or science
and technology.
2.5. The University will confer honorary fellowships of the University upon persons of distinction whom it deems to have made a significant contribution to the work of the University.
Collaboration with other awarding bodies and with other institutions
2.6. The University will act jointly with professional associations and with other awarding bodies to
make available courses leading to recognised awards of such associations and bodies.
2.7. The University may permit other institutions to offer courses leading to an award of the
University. Such courses will be validated and approved by the University in accordance with the statutes and principles.
Validation of the University’s taught courses
2.8. Academic Council is responsible for ensuring the academic standards of the University and is
the final arbiter in all matters relating to validation, approval, review and monitoring. Academic
Council may designate a specially constituted committee, sub-group or panel to act on its
behalf in matters relating to validation, approval, review, or monitoring and may delegate some
of its powers of decision to that body.
2.9. The overall aim of course validation and review is to secure for students a high quality of
educational and academic experience. Its most important function is to assess the quality and
standards of the University’s academic programmes. It also stimulates curriculum development
by requiring staff to evaluate their courses and to open them to the thinking and practices of external peers. All courses leading to an award of the University will be subject to a continuous
monitoring process to ensure the academic health of the courses between formal reviews. Further information regarding validations and reviews is provided within the Quality Assurance
and Enhancement Handbook | University of Westminster, London.
2.10. The University will work in close partnership with institutions which offer courses leading to an
award of the University to ensure that the University’s procedures for course validation and
review are complementary to, and where possible combined with the institution’s own internal
procedures for the scrutiny of courses. Further information regarding collaborative provision
can be read in the Collaborations Handbook .
2.11. The University’s regulations and processes for taught courses provide for Dual Awards, or Double Degrees, Joint Awards and Multiple Awards within prevailing legislative and advisory
frameworks of the European Union (EU), UK, and the states of current and potential partner institutions.
Maintenance of academic standards within the University taught courses
G
eneral principles
2.12. The University is dedicated to providing the means whereby its students can attain the highest
levels of achievement of which they are capable. To this end it undertakes to provide adequate
and appropriate facilities to ensure the continuing quality of its courses.
2.13. The University undertakes to ensure a learning environment commensurate with the quality of teaching and learning in its courses.
2.14. The University subscribes to the principle that the quality of the staff, their qualifications and experiences and the calibre of leadership at all levels are of paramount importance.
2.15. The University expects its staff to demonstrate a commitment to personal, academic and
professional development, and to engage in a variety of scholarly and professional activities
appropriate to their subject specialism, with a view to maintaining and updating their expertise.
2.16. In respect of the validation of a course the University will seek to ensure that both the teaching
and support staff are adequate in number and appropriately qualified for the objectives of the
course to be fulfilled.
2.17. The University will formally agree policies for staff development and research and will actively promote staff development and research to support teaching and learning at all levels.
2.18. The University will provide the physical resources needed to sustain its courses.
2.19. Responsibility for the maintenance of academic standards in the University lies with Academic Council (see 2.9).
Admission of students to the University’s taught courses
2.20. The University will admit students to its courses on the basis of the following principles:
a) reasonable expectation that the applicant will be able to fulfil the objectives of the course and achieve the academic standard required for the award ;
b) the University’s requirements for admission to the course leading to a particular award;
c) equality of opportunity for all applicants.
2.21. In considering individual applicants for admission to a course the University will seek evidence of personal, professional and/or educational experiences that provide indications of ability to
meet the demands of the course.
2.22. Each approved course handbook will specify the requirements for admission to that course.
2.23. The University bases its admissions requirements on nationally recognised formal minimum
attainment levels. Other qualifications and/or experience which demonstrate that the applicant
possesses appropriate knowledge and skills may be accepted in lieu of the stated formal minimum requirement. The University will use its discretion to interpret such formal minimum
attainment levels in terms of equivalence.
2.24. In admitting individual students to its courses, the University will have regard principally to the applicant’s ability to achieve the aims and objectives of the course.
Admission to a course with advanced standing
2.25. If the University is satisfied that the applicant has fulfilled some of the attainment and
progression requirements of the course by means other than attendance on the planned
course, and will be able by completing the remaining requirements to fulfil the objectives of the
course and attain the standard required for the award, that student may be admitted to any
appropriate point in the course, subject to the limits imposed by the undergraduate and postgraduate modular frameworks.
2.26. In exercising its discretion in this respect, the University will ensure that such admissions are in
accordance with the University’s requirements relating to the standards of its awards and with
good practice throughout higher education in the UK.
2.27. The University will consider admission to a course with advanced standing on the basis of
accredited prior certificated learning (RPCL) and/or prior experiential learning (RPEL) in accordance with the regulations stated in Section 4.
2.28. Admission ‘with academic credit’ will be subject to the same principles as admission to the beginning of a course. Subject to the requirements of the relevant course regulations , the
University may admit a student with exemption from certain elements of a course. This means
that the student is not required to take those elements but may, as appropriate, be required to
take alternatives; or with specific credit, the latter means that the student is considered to have passed certain elements and will, where course regulations permit, be graded. Further
information is provided Section 4 .
Programmes of study and taught courses leading to awards of the University
Definition of a programme of study
2.29. A programme of study is the approved curriculum leading to a specified and named award of
the University as followed by an individual student; the programme may be identical with a course or may be one of a number of standard routes within a larger course programme. The
University will admit students to its courses on a full-time, part-time, mixed-mode or distance-learning basis as appropriate. All programmes of study will conform to the University’s
regulations and requirements.
Aims and intended learning outcomes of the course
2.30. Every approved course will have stated aims and intended learning outcomes, which the curriculum, structure, teaching and learning methods and forms of assessment are designed to
fulfil.
2.31. The aims will include the development, to the level required for the award, of a body of knowledge and skills appropriate to the field of study and reflecting academic developments in
that field: these are course-specific aims.
2.32. The aims will also include general educational aims: the development of students’ intellectual and imaginative powers; their understanding and judgement; their problem-solving skills; their
ability to communicate; their ability to see relationships within what they have learned and to
perceive their field of study in a broader perspective. Each approved course will aim to
stimulate an enquiring, analytical and creative approach, encouraging independent judgement
and critical self-awareness.
2.33. The statement of objectives will show how the course will fulfil the aims. The statement of course-specific objectives will specify the knowledge and skills appropriate to the field of study
and identify the ways in which these will be developed and evaluated in the students learning. The statement of general objectives will identify the ways in which the students’ transferable intellectual skills will be developed and evaluated.
Course regulations
2.34. Each designated course or pathway leading to a specified and named award of the University
will be subject to course regulations approved in accordance with the general regulations of the
University. The regulations will include:
a) Regulations on the admission of students to a course
The admission regulations will describe the basis on which a student will be admitted to the beginning or to subsequent stages of the course;
b) Regulations on progression Progression regulations will set out the way(s) in which students progress through the course,
and identify the elements that are compulsory, optional or alternative;
c) Regulations on assessment
The assessment regulations for a course will state the basis on which students will be
assessed for an award by relating the assessment requirements to the aims and intended
learning outcomes of the course, the academic standard of the award, and any special
assessment requirements associated with the award.
Course management
2.35. In respect of its designated courses leading to specified and named awards the University will
establish:
a) clear channels of accountability from course teams to Academic Council ;
b) executive and administrative structures which support the collective processes of academic
policy-making and sustain academic leadership;
c) arrangements for staff and students to contribute in an informed way to the formation of academic policy and priorities;
d) effective communication which fosters internal inter-relationships and the transmission of
good practice.
2.36. The University will appoint a suitable member of the academic staff to be the leader of a
designated course of the University. The responsibilities of a course leader will include:
a) ensuring that the course meets its specified aims and intended learning outcomes ;
b) ensuring that the course is conducted in accordance with its approved regulations;
c) administration of the course in respect of academic matters;
d) the provision of documentation in respect of the monitoring and review process.
Assessment of students on the University’s taught courses
Principles of assessment
Fulfilment of intended learning outcomes
2.37. The purpose of assessment is to enable students to demonstrate that they have fulfilled the
intended learning outcomes of the module or course and achieved the academic standard
required for the award they seek. Examiners will make their judgements on student
performance in relation to the assessment regulations approved for the course.
Confirmation of academic standards
2.38. Assessment will reflect the achievement of the individual student in fulfilling intended learning outcomes for the module or course, and at the same time relate that achievement to a
consistent national standard of awards. It will therefore be carried out by competent and
impartial examiners and by methods which enable them to assess students fairly.
Types of assessment
2.39. In respect of designated courses a wide variety of assessment methods and types are used.
The University will ensure that types of assessment, including re-assessment, test the intended
learning outcomes accurately and fairly, and are appropriate to the subject being studied, the
mode of learning, and to the students taking the module or programme.
Assessment regulations
2.40. Each designated course or pathway leading to a specified and named award of the University
will be subject to a set of assessment regulations specific to the course and approved in
accordance with the general assessment regulations of the University.
External examiners
2.41. The University will appoint an appropriate number of external examiners to each of its
designated course schemes including those offered as collaborative provision in order to
ensure that the assessment process is conducted in a manner which provides parity of
judgement for all students for the designated course and subject and that the standard of the University’s awards is maintained in accordance with national standards.
2.42. External examiners are required to report annually on the conduct of the assessments and on issues related to assessment and the quality of the subject or course as revealed through the
assessments (see Section 13: The determination of results-the role of examiners ).
Progression and Award Boards
2.43. For every course or pathway approved as leading to an award of the University there will be
one or more Progression and Award Boards whose constitution and terms of reference are in
accordance with the approved regulations for the course and which include the external
examiner (s) appointed by the University. The constitution of the Board may include provision
for the appointment of subsidiary examination committees and the same Board may be
responsible for more than one course or pathway.
2.44. The Progression and Award Board is appointed on behalf of Academic Council and is
accountable to Academic Council for the fulfilment of its terms of reference.
2.45. Arrangements for Progression and Award Boards on collaborative courses are set out in Section 14: The Operations of Assessment Boards.
2.46. The University will ensure that the assessment requirements for courses are published to
students.
Research Degrees of the University
2.47. University regulations relating to Research Degrees are available at Academic programme |
University of Westminster, London
Confer ment of the University’s awards
Conditions of conferment
2.48. An award of the University will be conferred when the following conditions are satisfied:
a) the student was fully enrolled at the University at the time of their assessment for an award
and has paid all fees and dues to the University;
b) the student has completed a programme of study approved by the University as leading to the
award being recommended;
c) the award has been recommended by an Assessment Board convened, constituted and
acting under regulations approved by the University and involving all members appointed by
the University as external examiners for the award;
d) the recommendation of the Assessment Board has been formally ratified on behalf of
Academic Council .
2.49. In addition to the requirements above, the following conditions apply to the Conferment of awards within a Dual Award scheme, Joint and Multiple awards.
a) The same titles should be used by all partners contributing academic credits to a Dual Award scheme, both in terms of the academic qualification and the subject specific title.
Note: This should ensure direct parity of outcome and avoid students and the public being led to believe that two separate awards are conferred on successful completion of a Dual Award programme of study. While the academic qualification title may differ from that awarded by a
UK HEI, the level of the award should be demonstrably equivalent as indicated in the
qualifications framework for each state and any Professional, Statutory or Regulatory Body or
Association which accredits the programme or its equivalent in any of the partner institution states.
b) The Conferment date for all awards should be identical.
Note: The Conferment date for all partners should be the final Assessment Board meeting
date of the consortium, irrespective of which partner hosts the final meeting, i.e. this may not
be the same date as the final meeting at Westminster.
2.50. The University retains the right to rescind an award previously conferred. Please refer to
Section 20 Regulations for the Conferment of Awards .
Annexe 1: Awards for validation and conferment by the University
Academic awards at undergraduate and postgraduate level and research degree awards which
accord with the Sector-recognised standards as published by the Office for Students (OfS).
­ Certificate of Competence
­ Certificate of Higher Competence
­ Diploma of Competence
­ Diploma of Higher Competence
­ Certificate of Special Study (Cert SS)
­ Diploma of Special Study (Dip SS)
­ Award in Education and Training
­ Foundation Certificate (Fdn Cert)
­ Edexcel BTEC Higher National Certificate (HNC)
­ Edexcel BTEC Higher National Diploma (HND)
­ Certificate (Cert)
­ Professional Certificate (PCert)
­ Diploma (Dip)
­ Certificate in Education (Cert in Ed)
­ Certificate in Education (Diploma in Education and Training)*
­ Certificate of Higher Education (Cert HE)
­ Certificate in Lifelong Learning Sector (Certificate in Education and Training)*
­ Diploma of Higher Education (DipHE)
­ Foundation Degree in Arts (FdA)
­ Foundation in Science (FdS)
­ Bachelor of Arts (BA)
­ Bachelor of Arts and Science (BASc)
­ Bachelor of Science (BSc)
­ Bachelor of Engineering (BEng)
­ Bachelor of Laws (LLB)
­ Bachelor of Music (BMus)
­ Graduate Certificate (Grad Cert)
­ Graduate Diploma (Grad Dip)
­ University Certificate of Special Study (Pg Cert SS)
­ University Diploma of Special Study (Pg Dip SS)
­ Postgraduate Certificate (Pg Cert)
­ Postgraduate Diploma (Pg Dip)
­ Professional Graduate Certificate in Education
­ Professional Graduate Certificate of Education (Diploma in Education and Training)*
­ Erasmus Mundus European Master’s
­ Master of Arts (MA)
­ Master of Architecture (MArch)
­ Master of Engineering (MEng)
­ Master of Fine Arts (MFA)
­ Master of Laws (LLM)
­ Master of Law (MLaw)
­ Master of Music (MMus)
­ Master of Osteopathic Medicine (MOst.Med)
­ Master of Public Health (MPH)
­ Master of Research (MRes)
­ Master in Science (MSci )
­ Master of Science (MS c)
­ Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Note: Awards marked with an asterisk were formally Diploma or Certificate in Lifelong Learning
Part 2: Admissions Regulations
Section 3: Admissions Regulations for Taught Courses
These regulations apply to all taught courses offered or validated by the University of Westminster
(the ‘University).
Principles of admission
3.1. Each
course shall have specific admissions regulations (‘course specific regulations’), drawn up
in accordance with these regulations and with regard to relevant policies of Academic Council ,
which are agreed through the validation process. Such course specific regulations may vary
from the regulations set out below.
3.2. The U
niversity will admit students to its courses on the basis of the following principles:
a)reasonable expectation that the applicant will fulfil the objectives of the course and achievethe standard required for the award;
b)the University’s requirements for admission to the course leading to a particular award;
c)equality
of opportunity for all applicants.
Note
: The University will abide by the requirements of relevant legislation within the United
Kingdom and European Union. Particular attention is drawn to the University’s Admission
Policy and Code of Conduct, which include details on the Special Educational Needs and Disability Act.
Courses run in collaboration with other institutions/organisations
3.3. Where a course is operated by the University of Westminster in collaboration with another
institution/organisation, or offered by another institution/organisation on behalf of the University,
the admissions regulations for that course shall adhere to the principles outlined in these
regulations.
3.4. Students studying in another institution for an award of the University of Westminster shall be
recorded as externally registered students of the University of Westminster.
General entry requirements
3.5. These
regulations define standard minimum entry requirements for awards of the University,
based on nationally recognised formal minimum levels of attainment. Each course may have
specific admissions regulations which are agreed through the validation process and applicants
are advised to refer to these prior to making an application to the University of Westminster. Such course-specific regulations may vary from the regulations set out below. The University
will abide by the requirements of relevant legislation within the United Kingdom and European Union. Particular attention is drawn to the University’s Admission Policy and associated guides.
Note: These should be seen as benchmarks only. The University recognises that a wide
variety of other qualifications and learning may provide appropriate evidence of an applicant’s
suitability for admission. The University will use its discretion to interpret such formal minimum
attainment levels in terms of equivalence, with advice from external agencies as appropriate.
GCSE grades are changing from September 2015 over several years with grade C becoming Grade 4 or 5.
3.6. The University may consider an application for deferred entry but reserves the right to reject such a request. Applicants are only permitted to request their current application for a course to
be deferred for twelve months after their original entry point. For example, an applicant for
September can only request for their application to be deferred up to and including the following September.
3.7. The University wishes to encourage applications from non-traditional students, including mature students. Course-specific entry requirements will be framed to encourage such applications.
3.8. International/overseas qualifications may be accepted in accordance with guidance from the National Academic Recognition Information Centre for the United Kingdom (NARIC), as
indicated in the University’s prospectuses, and other promotional material.
3.9. The University may use additional methods in selection, the purpose and format of which wi ll
be notified to applicants.
English language proficiency
3.10. Students for admission to courses offered or validated by the University or offered on its behalf by another institution shall have sufficient command of the language(s) in which the course is taught to meet all the entry requirements for the course.
3.11. A full list of the English Language Test accepted by the University is available online and may
be subject to change as a result of Immigration and Visas Department requirements:
English language requirements | University of Westminster, London
3.12. International students shall be admitted to courses in accordance with UK legislation.
Payment of fees or other dues University of Westminster Award Examples of General Minimum Entry Requirements
Bachelor’s degree with
Honours/Bachelor’s degree
Two GCE A level passes plus three GCSEs passes at Grade
C or 4 or above including English Language and Maths; or
Three GCE A level passes plus two GCSEs at Grade C or 4
or above including English Language and Maths; or
BTEC National Diploma with Merit, Merit, Merit plus GCSE
English Language and Maths at Grade C or 4 or above; or
Pass in Access Diploma; or
Pass in International Baccalaureate; or
There are many other combinations and equivalents which
may be considered for entry to degree courses.
Postgraduate Certificate/Diploma Degree of a UK University or equivalent
Master’s degree Degree of a UK University or equivalent
3.13. Enrolment and continued registration on a course at the University shall be conditional upon
payment of fees or other dues, by the student or by a sponsor recognised by the University, by
the dates set by the University.
Monitoring
3.14. The allocation of the appropriate resources within plans agreed annually by the University Executive Board is the responsibility of Head of College and is monitored through the College
Executive Group.
Note: The Admissions policy will be monitored by the University Executive Board in terms of
implementation and operation, and by Academic Council in terms of standards.
3.15. Statistical information about students enrolled on University courses will be supplied to legitimate external agencies on request. Information drawn from the Student Record System
(SRS) will be provided automatically for the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA).
Discontinuation of a course
3.16. Where courses have materially changed or have been discontinued, suitable alternatives will
be offered where possible.
Note: Please refer to the University Closure Policy for the steps to be taken in discontinuing a
course.
Issuing of a Certificate of Acceptance of Studies (CAS)
3.17. International Students who require a visa to study in the UK, will be issued with a Certificate of
Acceptance of Studies (CAS), once they have:
a) been unconditionally offered a place on a course;
b) accepted this offer;
c) paid the required tuition fee deposit; and
d) supplied the University with the required passport details.
3.18. The University may refuse to issue a CAS if it is deemed likely that a visa will be refused. Applicants should also refer to the Guide for Applicants .
Admission to a course with credit or exemption
The following regulations should be read in conjunction with Section 4:
3.19. If the University is satisfied that the applicant has fulfilled some of the progression and
attainment requirements of the course or pathway by means other than attendance on the
planned programme, that student may be admitted to any appropriate point in the course.
3.20. The University will consider admission to a course with credit or exemption on the basis of prior learning and/or prior experiential learning. Such learning may be certificated or uncertificated and will be assessed according to the provisions set out in Section 4: and subject to the limits
on the maximum import of credit outlined in Section 17: Framework for Undergraduate taught
courses and Section 18: Framework for Postgraduate taught courses.
Commercial/Industrial experience and training and supervised work experience
3.21. An applicant may be judged to have satisfied, wholly or in part, the aims of supervised work
experience on a course. In considering such applications, the following will be taken into
account:
a) the quality of training or supervised work experience previously undertaken;
b) the relevance of that training or supervised work experience to the course;
c) the quality of the supervision and assessment of the training or supervised work experience;
d) whether the granting of such specific credit would still enable the student to meet professional
or other requirements which the supervised work experience within the course is intended to
satisfy.
Note: These regulations should be read in conjunction with Section 4: Recognition of Prior
Learning (RPL) Regulations.
Edexcel BTEC/SCOTVEC awards
3.22. Applicants holding a Higher National Certificate or Diploma of Edexcel BTEC or SCOTVEC will
be considered for admission with specific credit in the context of the University’s agreed
procedures for accreditation of prior learning, the University’s modular framework for Edexcel
courses and for undergraduate awards.
Part 2: Admissions Regulations
Section 4: Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) regulations
The Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) is defined as the assessment of previously acquired learning
(whether certificated or experiential learning) within the context of the course on which the student is
currently enrolled. The term RPL is used as a generic acronym to cover the accreditation of both
experiential and certificated prior learning.
General credit and specific credit
4.1. The term general credit applies to the totality of credit which a student might have as a result of prior learning, and which may have been awarded by another institution.
4.2. Specific credit is awarded for learning which matches the learning outcomes of particular
module(s). In addition to being awarded credit the student will be exempt from that module:
exemption signifies that the student is considered to have completed the module for the
purposes of pre-and/or co-requisite and/or core module requirements.
Note:
The amount of general credit achieved or recognised elsewhere may not all be awarded
as specific credit towards a particular award within this University. For example 120 credits
awarded at a previous institution is general credit, however the University of Westminster may only award e.g. 20 specific credits when the learning is mapped against the specific course.
General RPL regulations
4.3. Students may be awarded credit for prior certificated learning (RPCL) or prior experiential
learning (RPEL) at Credit Level 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 if they meet the criteria set out in Table 1 below
and with the detailed regulations and procedures set out in Section 4 of the Academic regulations: RPL Regulations. RPL credit can only be awarded for whole modules, not for part of a module.
Table 1: R
ecognised credit for RPCL or RPEL
Award Maximum Number
of RPCL or RPEL
credits which may
count towards the requirements of
the award Minimum number of credits to be
achieved at the University of
Westminster
Foundation Certificate 60 credits 60 credits at L3 or above
CertHE 60 credits 60 credits at L4 or above
DipHE 160 credits 80 credits, including at least 60 credits at
L5 or L6
Non-honours Degree 200 credits 100 credits, including at least 80 credits
at L5 and/or L6
Honours Degree 240 credits 60 credits at L6 and 60 credits at L5 or
L6
Integrated Masters 240 credits 120 credits at L7, 60 credits at L6, and
60 credits at L5 or L6
Foundation Degree 120 credits 120 credits, including at least 60 credits
at L5 or above
Postgraduate Certificate 30 credits 30 credits at credit level 7
Postgraduate Diploma 60 credits 60 credits at credit level 7
Master’s Degree 90 credits 90 credits at credit level 7
4.4. In all cases the credit awarded for prior learning must constitute a coherent programme of study
when considered together with the credit gained for modules studied within the University
scheme.
4.5. The University does not guarantee the award of any credit to any student who makes a claim.
Nor does the University guarantee that any credit awarded will find acceptance in any other course or institution.
4.6. The level of the credit awarded is determined by the level of the previous study and not for the achievement of marks above the threshold.
4.7. In order to justify the award of credit, the learning must be an appropriate level of study for the
award.
4.8. The award of credit will depend on the currency and relevance of prior learning as assessed by
the Academic Assessor and approved by the relevant College or University Board.
4.9. Credit for prior learning must relate to named modules. If credit is awarded for a particular
module, the student will, in addition to gaining credit, be exempt from that module. This means
that the University treats the student as having completed the module for the purposes of pre-and/or co-requisite requirements.
4.10. The course-specific regulations will state the processes by which academic credit for prior
learning will be awarded.
4.11. A student may not claim credit for prior learning in respect of a module, which they have attempted and failed.
4.12. A Professional or Accrediting Body may determine regulations governing an award which
restrict the amount of RPCL, RPEL, or both, which can be awarded towards accredited
programmes. Where the maximum credit permitted is less than that allowed under the
University of Westminster regulations the Professional Body restrictions will override the
University regulations.
Note: It is vital that Professional or Awarding Body regulations are checked prior to validation,
agreed through validation and incorporated into the course handbook.
4.13. Students may choose not to use any credit, which they have been awarded.
Note: Credit cannot be awarded until the appropriate course fees have been paid. There is no additional charge for the processes of accreditation of prior learning, whether certificated or
experiential, unless the RPEL process is delivered through specific modules for which a module
fee is charged.
Validatio n
4.14. Named awards must specify within their regulations the nature of the processes adopted for the
award of credit for prior learning. These processes will be considered within the
validation /review process and must follow University guidelines, and specify the Admissions
process, the RPL Assessment Board and/or named Assessment Board, to which
recommendations on credit awarded by RPL are submitted.
Appeals
4.15. An appeal may only be submitted if the student believes there has been material irregularity in
the processing of their application. All such academic appeals must be made in writing to the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) with 10 working days of the notification to the student
on the decision on the award of RPL credit.
RPCL (Recognition of Prior Certified Learning)
4.16. The Recognition of Prior Certificated Learning (RPCL) is defined as the process by which
appropriate certificated learning from another institution is accredited towards a University of
Westminster award. The prior certification should be provided by a recognised academic
institution as a result of a rigorously assessed learning experience. Credit for learning, which has been gained from an uncertificated course (or where the certificate is in respect of
attendance only), should be claimed through the RPEL route.
4.17. Recognition of Prior Certificated Learning is defined as certified learning that has taken place prior to entry on to the course of study. Modules taken outside of the course during the
student’s registration at the University would not normally be permitted as a basis for an RPCL
claim as they would not fit the definition of being prior certificated learning.
4.18. Students may gain credit from courses which they have previously taken at what is deemed to be HE level. This may be a course which they have completed which has given them an
intermediate award (e.g. a Dip HE), an award they have completed (e.g. HND), or alternatively,
any part of a course which they have successfully passed, if they did not complete the award
for which they were registered.
4.19. At the time of awarding credit for RPCL, a decision must be made as to whether the marks or grades, in their original or an amended form, will be included on a student’s record and so
count towards the final award. This would only apply to Levels 5 and 6 of an undergraduate degree or Level 7 and in accordance with the regulations as stated in Section 17
Undergraduate Framework or Section 18 Postgraduate Framework ‘Transfer of Credits’.
Note: Normally these marks would only be transferred where the student has studied in a system where a similar process of marking is used, with a rigorous quality assurance process
(e.g. another UK University).
4.20. Credit towards an honours degree would normally only be awarded in respect of a sub-degree
award or qualification which the student has obtained, or for a sum of credits that has not led to
an award. Once an honours degree has been awarded it cannot provide credit towards another honours degree.
4.21. Credit towards a Master’s degree would normally only be awarded in respect of an intermediate award or qualification already obtained, or a sum of credits that has not led to an award.
4.22. If a student already has a Master’s degree, any use of credit from this towards another Master’s degree is considered double counting of credit. A student may “top up” credit from a Postgraduate Certificate or Diploma to a Master’s, but cannot use learning, which has already
contributed to one Master’s degree towards another Master’s degree. Where a University of
Westminster student is applying to top up to either a Diploma or a Master’s course permission
will need to be sought from the Course Leader. Subject to the regulations concerning the
maximum period of enrolment as published in Section 17 Undergraduate Framework and Section 18 Postgraduate Framework will apply if approved, the student will need to return their
original certificate and transcript .
4.23. Credits may not normally be used to count towards a second qualification which is both at the same level and in a similar subject to the first e.g. a student who has been awarded a BA
Honours in History would not be able to count credits at levels 5 and 6 from this programme
towards a second BA Honours in History and Politics.
4.24. The transfer of credits towards a second qualification at a higher level may be allowed, as long
as this does not exceed the maximum number of credits allowed by RPL For example a PG
Certificate awarded previously by the University of Westminster or another UK awarding body
may, if approved by the School, be counted towards a Master’s degree award.
4.25. Credit transfer following the completion of a short course or as a module buyer with the University of Westminster may be considered for RPCL towards an undergraduate or
postgraduate course. Where such credit is awarded the regulations concerning maximum
period of enrolment and assessment as published in Section 17 Undergraduate Framework
and Section 18 Postgraduate Framework will apply. In addition, students must also meet the entry requirements for the course on to which they are applying for credit.
RPCL Procedures for enrolled students
4.26. The student must provide information on their certificated learning on an RPCL application form located at Recognition of Prior Learning | University of Westminster, London. In all cases
documentary proof that the qualification, in whole or in part, has been obtained must be provided. It is the student’s responsibility to provide this documentation.
4.27. The information which must be included in an application is:
a) the title of the award/qualification previously studied by the student and the name of the institution where the certificated learning was undertaken;
b) the dates and duration of the study;
c) details about syllabuses, assessment and which components of the award were
successfully completed;
d) details of the credit awarded and the credit framework used by the awarding institution.
4.28. The Course Leader is responsible for recommending the award of RPCL credit and must
advise the student formally that such recommendations are subject to ratification by the
Progression and Award Board.
RPCL Procedures for advanced entry applicants to undergraduate
courses
4.29. The award of credit for certificated learning will, in the case of advanced entry (normally entry to
level 5 or 6), be considered by the appropriate Admission Tutor, and appropriate Admissions
Officer.
4.30. Where RPCL is being considered for credit for a whole year (or two whole years’) of study, the student’s prior learning should be mapped against the learning outcomes of that year(s) and
the learning required to progress to the next year of study. The cross mapping of individual elements of prior learning to individual modules is not considered necessary unless this is essential to the programme for which credit is claimed.
Note: When recommending entry to level 5 or 6 the Admissions Tutor should complete the
appropriate checklist available from the Admissions Office.
4.31. Where an applicant is made an offer of an advanced entry place on a course on the basis of a prior certificated learning, they should complete the RPCL form 1 and submit it to the Senior
Admissions Adviser (Operations) with evidence of their prior certificated learning. The credit will be considered on the basis of evidence presented and, where the evidence supports the advanced entry of the applicant on to the degree course, the offer of a place on that course will
be confirmed as well as unconditional. Once the student has fully enrolled on the course, the award of RPCL credit must be reported to, and ratified by, the appropriate Progression and Award Board.
RPEL (Recognition of Experiential Prior Learning)
4.32. The Recognition of Prior Experiential Learning (RPEL) is defined as the process by which
appropriate experiential learning is assessed and accredited. Experiential learning can be described as the knowledge and skills acquired through life experience, work experience and
1 Recognition of Prior Learning | University of Westminster, London
study, which are not formally attested through any educational or professional certification. It
may also include instruction-based learning, provided by any institution, which has not been
examined in any of the public examination systems.
4.33. It is important that your knowledge and skills are up to date and over time academic
programmes develop and change. Normally the University require that prior learning has been achieved within the last five years, however if your prior learning is older than this and you have
remained up to date in your subject area you may still be able to make a claim.
4.34. Credit for experiential learning may be gained from a variety of sources e.g. within the workplace, from training courses, which the individual has completed but which are not
certificated, through experience in voluntary work, or by individual study. The source therefore is not important as long as the learning can be demonstrated to be at an appropriate level and
in a relevant subject area. Credit once awarded is not distinguished by its source.
4.35. Claims of experiential learning may be considered for learning that has taken place since the student commenced the course at the University of Westminster. This learning will normally be work based learning. Any claim should be made prior to the start of the module for which the
claim of credit is made.
4.36. RPEL credit awarded at any level is not given a mark and therefore will not be included in the calculation of the classification of the final award.
Note: The calculation of the classification will be based on the formally assessed modules the
student has taken in the University, although the prior credits will be counted towards the total
number of credits required for the named award.
4.37. Where the evidence relating to the claim is in a language other than English, the academic assessing the claim must possess sufficient competence in the language in question. If this is not the case then you may be requested to provide a translation into English of any evidence
submitted in support of your claim.
4.38. As with any academic work, any work submitted in support of an RPEL submission that is
found to contain elements of plagiarised work will be discounted. Where plagiarism is suspected in a submission from an existing student the case will be referred for investigation
under Section 10 Academic Misconduct.
4.39. Where Colleges or course schemes provide an RPEL module, the module should provide the opportunity for the student to achieve credits at the designated credit level of the module, as
long as the assessment criteria have been met. Students must demonstrate in assessment that
there has been an adequate reflection on experience, that learning has been identified and
articulated, that suitable evidence has been gathered and that an appropriate presentation has
been made. The award of credits for successful completion of an RPEL module does not
guarantee that any credit will be awarded for the subsequent RPEL claim, but such credit may
be awarded if the student has demonstrated relevant learning at the appropriate level.
RPEL Procedures
4.40. Colleges are responsible for considering and assessing all claims for RPEL and for determining the form of evidence required in support of claims.
4.41. For RPEL claims, there must be a formal assessment of the student’s evidence by the
appointed assessors. Applications should be submitted to Academic Standards for which exemption is being sought in the form of a portfolio consisting of:
a) a written request stating the module(s) for which the student is seeking RPEL credits;
b) documentary evidence of the prior learning; and
c) a reflective analysis of how this experience/learning demonstrates successful achievement of the learning outcomes of the module(s) for which credit is sought.
d) Documented evidence may include and/or be drawn from:
e) Published articles and manuscripts
f) Video/audio tapes/computer discs/electronic files, with commentary and analysis related to
achievement of learning outcomes
g) Analytical and evaluative description of practice
h) Artefacts
i) Statements from supervisors or managers in relation to aspects of practice
j) References from colleagues, employees, voluntary organisations, professional bodies
This is not an exhaustive list, and students should determine what evidence is appropriate to
support their application.
4.42. In some cases, the student may also be invited to complete the summative assessments
normally associated with the University of Westminster module(s) in order to demonstrate achievement of the learning outcomes, or an alternative assessment or assessments may be
set.
4.43. Students should be able to seek guidance from the College prior to completion of their RPEL
application. The nominated Admissions Tutors in Colleges should act as a central contact for all
RPEL requests. Students should be able to discuss with the Admissions Tutor the type of
evidence that may be required and the likely timetable of the process. Appropriate reference to
applications for RPEL should be included in Colleges’ admissions material.
4.44. The Admissions Tutor should discuss the RPEL application form with the student and:
a) Clarify what learning outcomes the student is seeking credit for
b) Discuss with the student how experiential learning might most appropriately be evidenced
c) Advise the student on how and when to submit the necessary portfolio of evidence
d) Consult with the Module Leader and other colleagues as necessary on the appropriate method(s) to be used to assess the applicant’s experiential learning and the evidence
submitted.
4.45. The completed RPEL claim and evidence should be sent to the Academic Standards Manager,
who is responsible for ensuring that the claim is assessed in accordance with the procedures outlined below.
4.46. The Module Leader is responsible for reviewing the application and determining either that the student has demonstrated that they have met the learning outcomes of the module(s) or that
the student has not demonstrated that they have met the learning outcomes of the module.
Following completion of the relevant sections of the form, the Module Leader is responsible for sending the claim and evidence to the School Director of Learning, Teaching and Quality, or
equivalent for internal moderation.
4.47. The role of the School Director of Learning, Teaching and Quality, or equivalent is to review the application and the Module Leader’s determination and confirm that either the application is
approved in full; that the application is approved in part or that the application should be rejected.
4.48. Whatever the form of evidence, the assessment process must evaluate a submission in terms of the following criteria:
a) a sufficient match between the prior learning and the relevant University of Westminster
module(s) in terms of:
b) subject content and knowledge-it must represent the student’s present knowledge and
abilities
c) sufficiency – it must be enough to satisfy the learning outcomes of the module(s), level
claimed
d) validity – it must be appropriate in terms of level, volume (i.e. match that for which the
claim is made, although higher level credit may substitute for lower level credit) and
relevance for the purpose of the particular claim
e) sufficient evidence of student achievement;
f) the student’s preparedness for assessments later in the course;
g) any particular restrictions imposed by Professional, Statutory or Regulatory Bodies;
h) the overall requirements for the course.
4.49. Fulfilment of these criteria should enable the Module Leader and School Director of Learning,
Teaching and Quality to judge whether or not the learning outcomes for the University of
Westminster module(s) have been met.
4.50. For cases of RPEL, assessment must be rigorous in ensuring that the learning that has taken place through experience is equivalent to the learning that would occur from following those
elements of the study which the student is seeking exemption from. Credit must only be given
for demonstrated learning, where equivalence of learning outcomes can be demonstrated.
4.51. The College should assure itself that the prior certified learning is equivalent to the standard of learning that would otherwise have been achieved from study in the relevant module(s) in the
course on to which the student is being accepted. This is usually done by analysis of the intended learning outcomes of the module(s). This is particularly relevant to professional
programmes where fitness to practice is pertinent.
4.52. Once the application has been considered by the School Director of Learning, Teaching and Quality, or equivalent, the claim form and evidence is to be sent to the Academic Standards
Manager.
4.53. With the exception of programmes that lead to an award at Level 3 or 4, external scrutiny is not required for modules at Levels 3 and 4. In the case of all other modules, following the completion of the internal consideration of the application, the Academic Standards Manager
will send the application to the external examiner to provide external scrutiny. The role of an
external examiner is to confirm, or otherwise, that the application demonstrates the learning outcomes have been met for the module(s).
4.54. The Academic Standards Manager will notify the College and the student of the outcome of the
RPEL application. Where a claim has been approved the Academic Standards Manager is
responsible for ensuring that credits obtained via RPEL are recorded as such on the student
transcript. RPEL credit is ratified by the Progression and Award Board as per Section 14 of the
Academic Regulations.
4.55. Where an RPEL claim has not been successful, students will have the right to one reassessment opportunity, as if they had failed the module.
4.56. As applications for RPEL are a matter of academic judgement; there will not normally be any right of appeal against the decision reached unless there has been a material irregularity (see
regulation 4.14).
4.57. A student granted credit through RPEL will not be allowed to study the module(s) for which credit has been awarded.
4.58. The Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) is responsible for the nomination of an appropriate External Examiner.
Part 3: Assessment regulations for taught courses
Section 5: General regulations
Principles of assessment
5.1. Assessment describes any processes that appraise a student’s knowledge, understanding,
abilities or skills. The Office for Students (OfS) defines various types of assessment under three
broad categories.
Diagnostic assessment
Diagnostic assessment is used to show a learner’s preparedness for a module or programme
and identifies, for the learner and the teacher, any strengths and potential gaps in knowledge,
understanding and skills expected at the start of the programme, or other possible problems.
Particular strengths may lead to a formal consideration of accreditation of prior learning.
Formative assessment
Formative assessment has a developmental purpose and is designed to help learners learn
more effectively by giving them feedback on their performance and on how it can be improved
and/or maintained. Reflective practice by students sometimes contributes to formative assessment.
Summative assessment
Summative assessment is used to indicate the extent of a learner’s success in meeting the
assessment criteria used to gauge the intended learning outcomes of a module or programme.
These regulations are mainly concerned with summative assessment (e.g. coursework and
exams) but formative and diagnostic assessment is an important part of the University portfolio.
An assessment can also often combine more than one of the above purposes.
5.2. The purpose of assessment is to promote and support effective learning and enable students to
demonstrate that they have:
a)met all the intended learning outcomes for each module;
b)fulfilled the objectives of the programme of study on which they are registered; andc)achieved the academic standard required for the award.
5.3. All
courses are subject to course regulations. Course regulations relate the assessment
requirements of the course to objectives and intended learning outcomes .
Responsibilities for assessment
5.4. Academic Council is responsible under the Articles of Association and its Statutes and
Principles (see Section 2: Statutes and Principles) for policies and procedures relating to:
a)the assessment and examination of the academic performance of students;
b)procedures for the award of qualifications;
c)the exclusion of students for academic reasons;
d)the appointment and removal of examiners.
5.5. Academic Council , whilst retaining overriding authority, has delegated to:
a)Progression and Award Boards: the responsibility for the assessment of students;
b)the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards): the consideration of requests by studentsfor a review of a decision of a Progression and Award Board (academic appeal see
Section 16) .
c) the Academic Registrar’s Department : the responsibility for the administration of courses.
Student’s Responsibilities
5.6. It is a student’s responsibility to ensure that they are:
a) registered for the correct modules in accordance with the procedures and deadlines
determined annually by the Academic Registrar’s Department.
b) eligible for assessment, or reassessment in accordance with the appropriate undergraduate or postgraduate modular frameworks and course or module specific regulations; and
c) where changing modules, they have done so in accordance with the procedures and
deadlines determined annually by the Academic Registrar’s Department.
Course assessment regulations
5.7. Every course leading to a named University of Westminster award must publish information
that specifies the:
a) intended learning outcomes at course and module level;
b) type, timing and content of assessment for each aspect of the course;
c) weighting of each element of assessment ;
d) arrangements for the submission of coursework, submission deadlines and the return of
both marked work and feedback ;
e) conditions for progression to the next stage of the course;
f) requirements for the award of qualification(s);
g) decisions open to the Progression and Award Board where the student fails any part of
the course;
h) action to be taken where failure was due to illness or other mitigating circumstances
considered as valid within University regulations.
5.8. Course assessment regulations must be consistent with both the assessment regulations of the
University and with the regulations of any external validating or Professional, Statutory and
Regulatory Body (PSRB), which recognises or accredits the course.
Note: Where there is a conflict between the University assessment regulations and those of a
PSRB, accrediting a qualifying award of that body, the regulations of the external accreditation
body will take precedence.
5.9. Where there is conflict between the course assessment regulations and those of the University,
the University regulations will take precedence, except where the variance has been formally approved by the Academic Registrar through validation, review or the major modifications
process.
5.10. Assessment regulations relating to the course must be published and made available to
students at the beginning of each academic session in the course handbook.
5.11. Changes to course assessment regulations may only be made in accordance with the
procedures set out in the University of Westminster Quality Assurance and Enhancement
Handbook . Where changes significantly affect the progress or future assessment of students
already registered, the course team must ensure an appropriate level of student consultation about the changes takes place in the semester prior to the change being introduced.
5.12. Assessment must be:
a) robust, valid and test the student’s achievement of the intended learning outcomes
accurately and fairly at both module and course level whilst at the same time relate that
achievement to the national standard of awards;
b) appropriate to the subject being studied, the mode of learning and to the students taking
the module or course;
c) marked and moderated by competent and impartial examiners, against published
assessment criteria and methods, which enable them to assess students fairly and
consistently.
Academic judgement
5.13. Assessment is a matter of academic judgement, not simply computation of marks.
Percentages, marks and grades are not absolute values but are used by examiners to represent their judgements on the level of a student’s achievement.
5.14. Academic judgement cannot be questioned or overturned.
5.15. In case of dispute about the interpretation of these regulations, the decision of the Academic Registrar shall be final.
Failure and reassessment: general requirements
5.16. Course assessment regulations must specify which elements and how many elements of
assessment must be passed for attainment of an award and make provision for a student to
make good any initial failure.
5.17. A Progression and Award Board shall not unreasonably withhold permission for a student to be
reassessed in accordance with the course and University assessment regulations.
5.18. Students will not be permitted to improve upon a mark or grade above the pass level required
for the module or award.
5.19. Where a module(s) is no longer offered as part of a course and/or it is not practicable for students to be reassessed in the same elements or an alternative module(s), the Progression
and Award Board may at its discretion, make special arrangements as it deems appropriate.
Note: Special arrangements deemed appropriate and agreed by a Progression and Award
Board should be formally recorded and reported to the Registry and Quality and Standards
Office for information.
Mitigating circumstances
5.20. The University recognises that some students may at certain times during their studies
experience unforeseen and unpreventable circumstances that prevent them from completing
elements of assessment. The regulations governing this procedure are detailed in Section 11:
Mitigating Circumstances Regulations .
Part 3: Assessment regulations for taught courses
Section 6: Coursework assessment
Definition of coursework
6.1. The term `assessed coursework’ relates to: essays, assignments, in-class tests , laboratory
tests, projects, dissertations, practical work, presentations, events, viva voce examinations,
placement or field trip reports, designs, theses, artefacts, digital photographic media, and
computer based analysis. This is not an exhaustive list .
Note: Staff should refer to Part 12: Good Practice in Assessment of Students, of the Quality
Assurance and Enhancement Handbook for further guidance.
Coursework deadlines
6.2. Deadlines for the submission of coursework must be published in respect of each module
within two weeks of the start of each academic semester. The submission dates for coursework
and any subsequent changes must be notified to the Campus Registry.
6.3. All
Coursework submissions deadlines should be set Monday-Thursday. No original
submission deadlines are allowed on a Friday; on weekends or during University closure
periods as detailed in the University Calendar. The only exception is when a 5 working day
extension, resulting from a successful Mitigating Circumstances claim or a Reasonable Adjustment approved by DLS, falls on a Friday due to a preceding bank holiday Monday. Deadlines for handing in assessed work will not normally be extended to allow for religious
observance, and students must schedule their work accordingly. The Associate Head of
College (Education and Students) must approve exemptions to the published deadlines
6.4. A penalty will be incurred for work submitted late by a reduction in marks (see 6.9 – 6.11).
Submission of coursework
6.5. Coursework must be submitted by the published deadline and in accordance with the published
system. The published system may mean submission to the appropriate Campus Registry; via Blackboard; Turnitin or Safe-Assign, or the Module Leader.
6.6. Students may, if the requirement is set by the Module Leader, be required to submit their work
through text matching software, such as Turnitin. If a student fails to comply with this request,
there will be no obligation to mark the work. The Module Leader will set a deadline for electronic submission via text matching software. If a student does not meet the deadline, a
penalty for late submission may be imposed.
6.7. In the event of major disruption to the University Network System, which as results in it not
being accessible for significant periods on the submission deadline date, the submission
deadline will be amended to the next working day on which the University Network System
becomes available. Confirmation that major disruption has taken place will be provided by
Information Systems and Support to Campus Registry Manager.
Late submission of coursework
6.8. Where students submit coursework late but within 24 hours of the specified deadline, the work
will be marked, and ten marks will be deducted from the original mark, to a minimum of the
pass mark (40% at undergraduate level, 50% at postgraduate level). For example, a piece of
assessment awarded a mark of 70% would be reduced to 60% as a penalty for late
submission. This also applies to students who have been granted an extension in accordance
with their Reasonable Adjustment form, approved by Disability Learning Services, and to those
students who have been granted a 5 working day extension following an accepted m itigating
circumstances claim.
6.9. If students submit coursework more than 24 hours after the specified deadline, a mark of zero
will be awarded for the work in question.
6.10. Regulation 6.8 and 6.9 do not apply if a claim of mitigating circumstances has been accepted
through the Mitigating Circumstances process, and the student submits the coursework within 5 working days of the original deadline. (see Section 11).
6.11. The late submission of scheduled assessments is not permitted (see regulation 6.13). Where a student does not attend (either remotely or in person as required by the module brief) the
scheduled assessment on the specified date a mark of zero will be awarded for the assessment component.
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Coursework
a) Students must check with the Module Leader in advance of the deadline if they are unsure
of the correct procedure for the submission of coursework.
b) It is a student’s responsibility to ensure that they allow sufficient time prior to the deadline,
to ensure any minor computer problems do not result in the late submission of coursework .
c) It is the student’s responsibility to check that they have uploaded the correct version of their coursework . After submission, students should check that the submission has
been uploaded correctly.
d) Students are advised to keep a copy of all coursework submitted for assessment. This requirement may be waived for particular types of assessment where this is not possible, e.g. practical work or in-class tests.
e) It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that, where assessed coursework is returned as part of the teaching and learning process, they have received all relevant work, and to
advise the Module Leader of any discrepancy.
Return of coursework
6.12. Coursework will be returned to students within a reasonable time and with sufficient guidance in
accordance with the Assessment and Feedback Policy .
Scheduled Assessments
6.13. Scheduled assessments are summative assessments, which are undertaken outside the formal examination period, such as in-class tests, lab tests, presentations, practicals, vivas,
performances etc.
6.14. Scheduled assessments should be run during teaching weeks as detailed within the University
Calendar and should not normally be scheduled on any Saturday or Sunday scheduled
assessments must not be take place during the University formal examination periods as
detailed in the University Calendar. Organisers of scheduled assessment should refer to the Religious Observance Policy for guidance on organising such assessments.
6.15. Scheduled assessments should normally be scheduled during the teaching slot for the module
and should not exceed the normal duration of the teaching slot.
6.16. Where the Scheduled assessment takes the form of an unseen paper, all students attempting
the paper must do so at the same time, and the paper itself must be subject to appropriate
security measures (see Section 7: Examinations and Section 8: Individual Exam Arrangements)
6.17. Module Leaders must inform the relevant Campus Registry of the date and time of all
Scheduled assessments. Scheduled assessments must take place in accommodation that is
appropriate to the form of assessment and its delivery and must be subject to invigilation
appropriate to the form of assessment.
Part 3: Assessment regulations for taught courses
Section 7: Examinations: regulations for students, staff and
invigilators
Introduction
7.1. An examination is defined as a formal, time-limited, written, oral or practical assessment, which
is scheduled during the University examination period (see University Term Dates ). These
regulations only refer to centrally organised examinations and do not apply to formative
assessments or in-class tests which are arranged by Module Leaders.
7.2. Where modules include assessment (s) by examination, students will be advised by the Module
Leader of the form of examination (e.g. closed, restricted, open, onsite, online etc.).
7.3. After results have been released, students shall have the opportunity to receive feedback on
their completed examination scripts in accordance with the Assessment and Feedback Policy .
7.4. Students will be provided with their individual examination timetable and the information will
also be published on the exam timetables webpage.
7.5. The final examination timetable may include changes from the provisional timetable. It is the
responsibility of each student to ensure they have checked the final examination timetable in
relation to all modules for which they have registered. Information about the examination timetable will not be disclosed by telephone.
Timing and location
7.6. Examinations will only be held during the designated examination periods published in the
University Term Dates.
7.7. Examinations will be held at the University of Westminster premises however the University
reserves the right to hold examinations at other locations in exceptional circumstances.
7.8. Examinations for standard full and part-time courses will be scheduled in the mornings and
afternoons during the examination period. In exceptional circumstances, examinations may
have to run in the evening and will commence no later than 6pm.
7.9. Where one module is studied by different student groups, an identical examination must
normally be taken simultaneously. Where this is not possible reasonable precautions must be taken to prevent the disclosure of information between students.
Examination procedures
7.10. Students must follow the instructions given by the invigilator(s) at all times either before, during
or after the examination has commenced.
7.11. The invigilator has a responsibility to ensure the identification of every student, therefore
students are required to be in possession of their Student ID Card at every examination which they are attending. Students must leave their Student ID Card face up on the desk throughout the examination. A student who does not have their Student ID Card will be allowed to sit the
examination but must remain in the examination room until their eligibility to sit the examination
has been confirmed. Failure to establish the identity of the student may result in their examination not being marked and their possible investigation for academic misconduct.
7.12. Students may not read the question paper, write in their answer books or write notes until the
invigilator announces that they may do so.
7.13. Students cannot bring pencil cases into the examination room. Pencils, pens, rulers etc. must be contained within a clear plastic bag.
7.14. Students must only write in blue or black ink unless the examination requires otherwise.
7.15. Students must leave all bags, coats, and other items at the back of the examination room as
directed by invigilators. Students should leave all non-essential items at home as the University
of Westminster cannot accept responsibility for any lost or damage d items.
7.16. Students may bring unwrapped sweets and water in a clear plastic bottle into the examination room. Students are not permitted to bring food into the examination room unless this is agreed in the Reasonable Adjustment Form approved by Disability Learning Support .
7.17. Students will be notified by their Module Leader if they are permitted to use a calculator as part of the examination and only approved models will be permitted for use in the examination room.
Students must supply any permitted calculator as the University does not provide these.
7.18. Students can be admitted up to 30 minutes after the start of the examination. No extra time will be allowed to a student who arrives later than the start time of the examination. No student may
leave the examination during the first 30 minutes, or the last 15 minutes of the examination, other than on the instructions of an invigilator in exceptional circumstances. Students must
cease writing after the invi gilator has announced the end of the examination and must remain
seated until the scripts have been collected and counted by an invigilator, and they are advised
that they can leave.
7.19. A student who wishes to temporarily leave the examination room must first obtain the express permission of the invigilator. Any student who leaves the examination room without the express
permission of an invigilator shall be deemed to have withdrawn from the examination and shall
not be allowed to re-enter the room. Any student who is given permission to leave the
examination room will be escorted by an invigilator.
7.20. Students are required to use only the approved examination stationery. Rough work must be
completed on the approved examination stationery and handed in with the worked script.
Except where otherwise stated on the question paper all answers must be written in English.
7.21. Where an examination script is illegible to the extent that the ability of the examiner to assess the work is impaired, the student will be asked to attend the University to dictate their exam script for transcription. The transcript is to be typed by an appropriate member of staff as
determined by the Univeristy. Any costs incurred in the production of the transcript will be borne
by the student. If the student refuses to dictate their examination script for transcription, or does not respond to the request, the work will be assessed on the basis of the legible parts only
and a mark awarded accordingly.
7.22. No student shall communicate or attempt to communicate with another student in the examination room or cause any disturbance to other students. Students are prohibited from
bringing or using any electronic devices or devices that would enable communication during the
examination such as mobile phones, smart watches, laptops etc. Any student found
contravening these regulations will be dealt with according to University’s procedures governing
Academic Misconduct (see Section 10 Academic Misconduct Regulations).
Procedures in the event of disruption
7.23. For the purpose of these regulations, an examination shall be deemed to have started once
students have entered the examination room.
7.24. The Senior Invigilator should instruct students to evacuate the room(s), leaving all examination
answer booklets, rough work and examination question papers in the examination room. The
Senior Invigilator shall be the last person to leave the room.
7.25. As soon as possible after the emergency is over, the Senior Invigilator will re-enter the
examination room and will take particular note of the security of the room, whether the answer
booklets, or any other documents appear to have been disturbed and any other pertinent
factors. No student shall re-enter the examination room until authorised to do so by the Senior
Invigilator .
7.26. Where at the designated time of starting an examination, the building in which it was due to be
held is closed as a result of an emergency building evacuation, the examination will normally
start 15 minutes after the building has been re-opened.
7.27. A full report of the circumstances of the building evacuation including the time of the interruption, the start and end time of the examination and the observations of the Senior
Invigilator , shall be recorded on the Examination Incident Report form and returned to the
relevant Campus Registry.
7.28. If emergency procedures occur during the examination period the Senior Invigilator working
with the Campus Registry Manager, or nominee, should immediately determine which
examinations have been affected. In the case of an examination that has not yet begun, the
Campus Registry Manager or nominee will liaise with the Senior Invigilators to determine
which, if any, examinations should be abandoned.
7.29. Where an examination needs to be re-scheduled, students will be advised by of the date, time
and location of the re-scheduled examination.
7.30. When an examination has been abandoned, the Campus Registry Manager or nominee shall
liaise with the Head of College or nominee; examiner(s) for the subjects concerned; the Course
Leader ; Module Leader and the Chair of the College Teaching Committee or equivalent. The
group shall constitute a sub-committee of the Progression and Award Board acting with
delegated authority. The board shall determine whether to:
a) accept the examination answer booklets (if any) as the full result of the examination;
b) accept the examination answer booklets (if any) as part of the results and to set an
appropriate additional assessment ;
c) void the examination and set a further question paper; or
d) where appropriate, under the course assessment regulations, discount the examination
and determine the results for students based on the remainder of their assessed work.
A different decision may be given for examinations affected by the same incident. When
considering the outcome, the sub-committee of the Progression and Award Board may
consider the type of examination (open, or closed), level, assessment weighting, duration and
any other factors deemed appropriate.
7.31. In determining what action to take in respect of an examination that has been abandoned as a
result of an emergency evacuation, the sub-committee of the Progression and Award Board
shall take account of;
a) the overall pattern of assessment on the course and in the subject in question;
b) the body of evidence available in respect of student performance in the subject;
c) the role of the formal examination,
d) the logistical implications of its decision and its impact on students
7.32. The sub-committee will operate in the manner most appropriate to the issues; this need not
necessarily involve a formal meeting. The Campus Registry shall formally record the discussions and decisions of the sub-committee. The report must be agreed by all members of
the sub-committee, and form part of the documentation for the Progression and Award Board.
7.33. Where the sub-committee has agreed that the examination forms part of the assessment in the
subject, the mark sheet available to the Progression and Award Board shall make clear the
proportion of the assessment constituted by the formal examination.
7.34. In cases of major disruption in travel, or other similar circumstances, the start time of examinations may be delayed. Where the dates of the disruption are known in advance, morning examinations scheduled on those dates may start and finish 30 minutes later than
scheduled. It is the responsibility of the Academic Registrar or nominee, to determine if the
circumstances warrant a later start time. The timings of afternoon and evening examinations will not normally be changed.
7.35. On days of severe disruption only, students will be admitted to the examination room up to one
hour after the start time of the examination; however, no additional time will be allowed. No student will be admitted to any examination more than one hour after the start of an
examination.
7.36. No student will be permitted to leave the examination room (other than where accompanied by
an Invigilator) until 30 minutes after the start of the examination.
7.37. Where a student arrives late, the invigilator will note the time of their arrival on the student
attendance sheet.
Guidance: Student Responsibilities-Examinations
a) If an alarm sounds, students must leave their examination answer booklets, rough work
and examination question papers and evacuate the room quickly and quietly. Under no circumstances should a student remove an answer booklet, rough work or an examination paper from the examination room.
b) When the building is re-opened, students must not under any circumstances re-enter any
examination room unless they are instructed to re-enter the building by the senior
invigilator.
c) Where an examination has been terminated as a result of an emergency evacuation,
information on any alternative arrangements will be provided by the University on the
Student Hub. It is the responsibility of the student to ensure they read the University
communications in relation to this and to present themselves for assessment on the due
date.
d) If there has been a delay in the start time of the examination due to disruption, the University will make every effort to communicate this to students in advance on the Student Hub and students must read the University’s communications. If in any doubt,
students should assume that the examination will start as originally scheduled.
e) If students are likely to be affected by any transport disruption, they are advised to investigate immediately alternative travel arrangements, or opportunities for temporary
accommodation near the examination location. Students should bear in mind that
disruption to public transport inevitably puts pressure on other forms of transport services
too and are advised to allow more time for their journeys irrespective of their mode of
travel.
Part 3: Assessment regulations for taught courses
Section 8: Individual examination and assessment arrangements
The University’s responsibilities
The University is mindful of its responsibilities under the Equality Act 2010 and its need to make
reasonable adjustments to appropriately accommodate the learning support requirements of disabled
students and students with long term conditions. Please contact the Student Centre for further
information and advice.
Individual examination and assessment arrangements
8.1. Individual arrangements for examinations or assessments may be made for disabled students
or students with long-term conditions, which would affect their ability to undertake the proposed
examination or assessment. For the purposes of these regulations, long term will be defined as
a condition or disability that on the basis of documentary evidence, can reasonably be expected to last beyond the semester to which the claim refers
8.2. Individual arrangements may include:
a)additional time for an examination or coursework (see 8.13);
b)the availability of sheltered facilities, such as a room for individual students, or a separateroom with other students also requiring additional time;
c)the completion of work other than in handwriting;
d)the provision of the question paper in an alternative form or an alternative mode ofassessment ;
e)the use of tape, Braille or other facilities, or the employment of an amanuensis and/orreader.
8.3. The purpose of an individual arrangement shall be to compensate for the restrictions imposed
by the disability or long term condition, without impairing the validity of the
assessment/examination and without giving unfair advantage relative to other students.
8.4. Students with a disability, or long term condition must register with Disability Learning Support
so that their needs can be assessed and appropriate arrangements made in plenty of time for any individual arrangements for exams and other assessments.
8.5. Students seeking individual arrangements for assessments must do so in accordance with the
procedures and deadlines determined annually by the University1. The relevant Disability
Advisor will determine the appropriate arrangements to be made based on the medical or diagnostic evidence submitted.
8.6. This
information is documented on the student’s Reasonable Adjustment Form and
communicated to appropriate colleagues in order for the required arrangements to be made.
8.7. A copy of the Reasonable Adjustment Form is available to the student, Course Leader, Module
Leader and Disability Tutor via the Student Record System.
8.8. The U
niversity will coordinate the employment of support workers e.g. amanuenses, readers,
sign language interpreters .
1 Procedures for making individual arrangements for assessments can be accessed on the Individual Exam Arrangements
page or by contacting the Student Centre
8.9. All requests for individual examination arrangements must be submitted as soon as possible.
Students will need to contact Disability Learning Support and be fully registered with them at
least six weeks in advance of any examination period in order to receive individual examination
arrangements for that particular period. Where the arrangements involve the cooperation of
external agencies or the provision of external support (e.g. Braille translation) requests must be submitted at the earliest opportunity in order to meet potentially conflicting bookings and
requirements of external agencies.
8.10. Where as a result of the six week deadline not being met, the University is unable to make individual examination arrangements in time, the student will be registered to take the
examination under standard conditions and the student may submit a claim for mitigating
circumstances to defer the approved individual examination arrangements to the next available
examination period. Students will need to provide the individual examination arrangements approved by Disability Learning Support as acceptable evidence for the mitigating
circumstances claim.
Arrangements for temporary and short term conditions
8.11. Students with a short term or temporary condition (e.g. a broken limb or other injury) may apply
directly to the Student Centre, for individual examination arrangements using the ‘Request for
Individual Exam Arrangements for Temporary Conditions Form’ available on the Individual
Exam Arrangements page. For the purposes of these regulations, ‘short term’ or ‘temporary’
shall be defined as a condition that is only expected to affect assessment in the semester to
which the claim refers.
8.12. In all cases, applications must be submitted to the Student Centre as soon as the short term or
temporary condition occurs. Independent documentary medical or diagnostic evidence is required in support of all applications for individual examination or assessment arrangements.
In considering claims for short-term or temporary conditions, the University, will undertake
whatever consultation is deemed necessary in arriving at a decision on the claim.
8.13. If the University is unable to make the arrangements in time, the student may submit a claim for mitigating circumstances to defer the approved individual examination arrangements to the next
available examination period.
Students’ Responsibilities
a) It is a student’s responsibility to notify the University of their requirements for support in
assessment at the earliest possible opportunity. The University cannot accept
responsibility for problems in assessment in cases where a student has chosen not to, or
failed to, notify it of their requirements. Retrospective requests for alternative assessment
arrangements, or for additional opportunities to sit for assessments, cannot be considered.
b) Disabled students, or students with SpLD (Specific Learning Difficulties e.g. dyslexia, dyspraxia, and dyscalculia) should apply directly to Disability Learning Support on entry to
their course, so that arrangements can be made to accommodate their requirements for
alternative assessments and/or individual examination arrangements.
SpLDs (dyslexia, dyspraxia, dyscalculia)
8.14. Students with SpLDs may undertake their written examinations with an additional time allowance in a separate room with other students’ who also require additional time, or
dependant on the recommendations made on their diagnostic assessment, undertake the exam
on a computer or in an individual room where a reader/scribe is required.
8.15. The examination answer booklets of students with SpLDs will be identified with a sticker to alert
markers to the need to consult the marker’s guidelines.
8.16. Students with SpLDs are permitted to use a personal tinted overlay where required in
examinations and in-class tests. It is the student’s responsibility to provide this.
Sitting examinations abroad
8.17. Students are expected to sit their onsite examinations as scheduled at the University of
Westminster. The University may exceptionally permit students to sit for examinations outside
the UK, in cases where:
a) an overseas student who has completed their course is required to complete a deferral or
referral examination in order to graduate; or
b) a student is required to undertake a period of residence abroad as part of their course (or on
an approved student exchange) and this period of residence coincides with the University
examination period. See Section 19 Framework for study abroad and exchange students .
8.18. Any student seeking to take an examination overseas must apply formally using the Exams
Abroad Request Form available on the Sitting exams abroad webpage (.If the application is
agreed, an appropriate British Council office will normally be asked to conduct the examination. Any costs incurred must be borne by the student. Please note that applications to sit exams
overseas are not guaranteed to be accepted.
8.19. Where an examination is taken abroad it must be sat at the same time as the scheduled examination in the UK. This may affect the start time due to different time zones and the British Council Office may not be able to support this.
8.20. If a student has individual examination arrangements in place with Disability Learning Support ,
it cannot be guaranteed that these can be supported by the British Council Office selected.
Part 3: Assessment regulations for taught courses
Section 9: Viva voce examinations
Definition of viva voce examinations
9.1. A viva voce examination is defined as a set of oral questions that assesses skills and
knowledge.
9.2. A viva voce examination may be used in conjunction with other forms of assessment to
determine an overall mark for a module. Where used for summative assessment, provisions for
viva voce examinations must be detailed in the validated module pro-forma, be subject to a
marking scheme and be applicable to the whole cohort.
9.3. Viva voce examinations can only be used to determine a final classification where there is a
professional, statutory or regulatory body (PSRB) requirement to do so.
Cases of mitigating circumstances
9.4. A viva voce examination may be conducted as an alternative or additional assessment where
very exceptional reasons for poor performance have been established and a valid claim of mitigating circumstances has been accepted (see Section 11). The Head of College, or
nominee, and the Academic Registrar, or nominee, shall liaise to determine the suitability of such a request.
Cases of suspected academic misconduct
9.5. A viva voce examination may be used where there is a suspicion of academic misconduct.
Specific regulations apply to viva voce examinations of this kind please refer to Section 10
Academic Misconduct.
Procedures
9.6. A viva voce examination should be conducted by at least two subject specialists prior to the
Progression and Award Board. In order to ensure transparency a record of discussions must be
made. An External Examiner may see a sample of the written records of discussion, be given access to a video/audio recording, or attend a sample of the viva voce examinations.
9.7. It
is the student’s responsibility to ensure they are available for a viva voce examination on the
date agreed with the Module Leader. Failure to attend without a valid mitigating circumstance
claim will be treated as non-attendance.
Note: Where a student is aware in advance that they will not be able to attend, the student
should liaise with the examiners to try and establish an alternative date. If no agreement can be
made it is a student’s responsibility to submit a claim of mitigating circumstances.
9.8. A viva voce examination should take place in term time, or during the allocated re-assessment
week, unless otherwise agreed by all parties.
Part 3: Assessment regulations for taught courses
Section 10: Academic misconduct
Purpose
10.1. The U
niversity has a public duty to ensure that the highest standards are maintained in the
conduct of assessment. The proper discharge of this duty is essential to safeguard the
legitimate interests of its students and the University’s academic standards and reputation.
Academic misconduct is taken very seriously. The University will take action against any
student who contravenes these regulations through negligence, imprudence, ignorance or by
deliberate intent.
10.2. The purpose of the procedures described in these regulations is to obtain all relevant facts and
to reach a fair decision based on the evidence available. The process to be observed at all
hearings and meetings convened under these regulations is inquisitorial rather than adversarial. It is not a judicial process, although it should be recognised that the University has
an authority deriving from its contractual relationship with the individual student and from the
student’s agreement to be bound by the regulations in force in the period of study for which they are a student.
10.3. Any
student subject to academic misconduct proceedings in accordance with these regulations
may obtain advice and guidance from the Academic Standards Manager or from the Students’ Union.
Definitions
For the purpose of these regulations:
10.4. ‘Student’, unless specifically qualified otherwise, is defined as any person pursuing a course,
module or programme of study offered by the University, whether or not currently in attendance, suspended, interrupted, or on placement.
10.5. ‘Former student’ is defined as any student no longer pursuing a module, course or programme
of study offered by the University, having successfully completed their studies or having
terminated their studies for any other reason.
10.6. ‘Friend’ is defined as a currently registered student of the University, a sabbatical officer of the
University of Westminster Students’ Union, or member of University staff.
10.7. 'University' shall be defined as the University of Westminster and shall encompass all activities,
property and assets under the formal authority of the Court of Governors, including property
occupied by the University of Westminster Students' Union and assets purchased by the
Students' Union from public funds.
10.8. ‘Material irregularity’ means the University has not acted in accordance with its own regulations
or procedures, or has not acted with procedural fairness, and that this failing on the part of the
University is so significant that it has had a material impact on the outcome. I.e. had it not been
for this failing the outcome would probably have been substantively different.
10.9. ‘Witness’ is defined as a person who was either present at the time of the event or can provide
information connected to the allegation. The role of a “witness” differs to that of a friend, they
cannot make representations on behalf of the student.
Scope
10.10. These regulations apply to all taught undergraduate and postgraduate students, and to former
taught undergraduate and postgraduate students in relation to assessment previously
undertaken whilst a student of the University. Separate regulations pertain to the academic
misconduct of postgraduate research students.
10.11. These regulations will also be applicable to all taught undergraduate and postgraduate students
(and former students) undertaking a course leading to an award of the University but delivered under a collaborative arrangement with a partner institution, unless otherwise agreed and
stated in the partnership agreement.
10.12. An allegation of academic misconduct may be investigated at any point, whether or not a final
mark has been assigned to the work in question.
10.13. Exceptionally, an alleged offence may come to light after a Progression and Award Board has
met and agreed results have been published. In such cases, the allegation must be referred directly to the Academic Standards Manager, who will consult with the Chair of the Progression
and Award Board. They will take account of the seriousness of the offence, the time, which has elapsed since it was committed, the reasons why it was not discovered earlier, and the regulations of any external validating or professional body, in determining whether or not to
proceed with the case.
General Principles
10.14. The College Teaching Committee or equivalent acts on behalf of Academic Council in overseeing the implementation of the quality assurance processes within each College. This
includes responsibility for monitoring cases of academic misconduct to ensure the University
maintains its academic standards.
10.15. The Academic Standards Manager has oversight of all cases of academic misconduct in order
that they can ensure consistency and carry out the University’s reporting requirements. This will
include responding to requests for information under the Freedom of Information and Data Protection Acts.
10.16. Students involved in academic misconduct procedures shall have the right to be accompanied to any meeting or hearing by a ‘friend’, as detailed above. The role of the friend is to provide
moral support during a meeting or hearing. They may make representations on behalf of the
student. The friend cannot be a witness to the case under consideration. Legal representation is not permitted at any meeting or hearing convened under the provisions of these regulations.
10.17. The University will wherever possible seek to adhere to the time limits outlined in this procedure; however, in cases where there are special circumstances which require variance
from specified time limits, the student will be advised of the reasons for this by the Officer
handling the investigation or hearing.
10.18. Students will be given the opportunity to attend hearings and meetings virtually. Students can
request to attend in person. The University reserves the right, however, to proceed with any investigation or hearing in the absence of a student, subject to the student having been
properly notified of the date and time of the hearing.
10.19. The University reserves the right not to proceed with any investigation following an allegation of academic misconduct against a student if it is considered that there are insufficient grounds or evidence to do so.
10.20. During the application of these regulations, the University reserves the right to adjourn any investigation , meeting or hearing and reconvene at a later date in order to permit a further
investigation to be undertaken, to seek additional evidence or clarification of the evidence or for
such other reason as is reasonable.
10.21. The standard of proof to be adopted during the application of these regulations will be the
balance of probabilities.
10.22. If it is determined, at any stage, that a false allegation has been made by a student or member of staff with vexatious or mischievous intent, the University may initiate an appropriate
disciplinary process against the person or persons making that allegat ion.
10.23. Where a student is enrolled on a course that is regulated by a professional, statutory or regulatory body (PSRB) and that student is found, under the provisions of these regulations, to
have committed academic misconduct, the University may, depending on the nature of the
offence, be obliged to report that fact to the PSRB.
10.24. Written communications will be sent to students via e: Vision and their University e- mail
address. To access their case the student will need to log in to ‘My Student Record’. Students are expected to check regularly their University e- mail account and e: Vision for updates on
their case. Non-receipt of properly dispatched correspondence will not be accepted as valid
grounds for delay or annulment of procedures or outcomes under these regulations, nor will it be accepted as grounds for appeal.
10.25. All references to the Academic Standards Manager include their nominees who are working under their authority, or other appropriate officer nominated by the Academic Registrar.
10.26. Where a student is found to have committed academic misconduct this will be recorded on the student’s file and retained in accordance with the University's records retention schedule. The
student’s misconduct record may be referred to in future references and will be referred to
should any subsequent allegation of academic misconduct be reported.
10.27. All decisions taken under this section shall take full account of natural justice, fairness and equity, and all penalties should be applied consistently within, and between, proceedings at an
Academic Misconduct Meeting and proceedings by the Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing.
10.28. These regulations provide guidance on the appropriate penalties. Each body which imposes a
penalty has the discretion to vary the penalty it can impose but must provide clear reasons as
to why they have varied the penalty.
10.29. Whilst an academic misconduct investigation is ongoing, the module result will have a status of
‘held’ in the student record system. Once the investigation has completed the student’s module result will ratified by the Progression and Award Board in accordance with the procedures set
out in Section 14, Section 17 and Section 18 of the Academic Regulations.
10.30. Any penalty imposed as the result of an academic misconduct investigation overrides any decision taken with regard to a mitigating circumstance claim in respect of that assessment.
10.31. No penalty may be imposed for academic misconduct other than in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations.
10.32. In general, the University will not consider mitigation in cases of academic misconduct. Students who are unable to complete an assessment, through illness or other personal
circumstances, should apply for mitigation through the appropriate channels at the time that the
circumstances and/or illness occurs, and such circumstances cannot be considered as an excuse for academic misconduct.
10.33. Where a student is found to have committed academic misconduct in an assessment component, that fact will not necessarily preclude the condonement of a module where condonement is permitted in accordance with the academic regulations.
10.34. The University may reconsider misconduct allegations previously raised against a student after
a matter has been dismissed, determined or otherwise concluded if there is new material
evidence or information that emerges that was not previously reasonably available, for example, at the time of an investigation.
10.35. For the purpose of these regulations, ‘examination’ includes both written and oral examinations, and course tests. ‘Assessed coursework’ includes coursework, essays, assignments, in-class
assessments, laboratory tests, projects, dissertations, practical work, presentations, placements, or field trip reports, designs, theses, artefacts, digital photographic media, and computer-based analyses, etc.
Definition of Academic Misconduct
10.36. Academic misconduct is where a student gains, or seeks, attempts or intends to gain,
advantage in relation to assessment, either for themself or for another person, by unfair or improper means. An act of academic misconduct is committed regardless of whether or not the
student intended to commit the act. For example, plagiarism may be committed irrespective of
whether or not the student intended to deceive the examiners. The intention or otherwise of a student to deceive the examiners will not normally influence the penalty imposed.
Types of Academic Misconduct
The following is a non-exhaustive list of types of academic misconduct:
10.37. Collusion is where a student either:
a) presents for assessment work done in collaboration with another student as entirely their own; or
b) collaborates with another student on work which is submitted as that other student’s work.
10.38. Where students in a class are instructed or encouraged to work together in the pursuit of an
assignment or other assessed task, such activity is regarded as approved collaboration and not
collusion, although there may be a requirement for each student to identify their own contribution.
10.39. Students may not lend their work which has been submitted for assessment to another student, this includes former students. Students should treat their academic work as their own property.
It is a student’s responsibility to protect their own work. Student s should ensure that electronic
copies of their work are stored securely and cannot be copied or stolen by another student; for
example, in computer laboratories. Student IDs and passwords are for the exclusive use of the
account holder and must never be s hared.
10.40. Plagiarism (including self-plagiarism ) is where a student either;
a) presents work for assessment which contains the unacknowledged published or
unpublished words, thoughts, judgements, ideas, structures or images of some other
person or persons. This includes material sought from electronic sources such as Artificial
intelligence (AI) technology or other software, and material sourced or contracted from a
third party; or;
b) presents for assessment work which that student has previously submitted for assessment as part of the same or another module or course, or at another institution, without citing
that it was used previously This is known as self-plagiarism, and relates to the principle
that a student may not receive credit for the same piece of work more than once unless
specifically required to resubmit work as a requirement of re-assessment.
10.41. The University expects its students to submit work that is original to them and demonstrates their independent thought, whilst clearly acknowledging all of the sources that they have
consulted in compiling their assignment. Plagiarism can be avoided by the accurate use of
academic apparatus including quotation marks, the provision of detailed references and a full
bibliography. Quotations from the published or unpublished work of other persons or Artificial
intelligence (AI) technology or other software must always be attributed, both at the appropriate
point in the text, and in the bibliography at the end of the piece of work. Extensive quotations, close paraphrasing, copying from the work of another person, including another student, or
using the ideas of another person, o r Artificial intelligence (AI) technology or other software
without proper acknowledgement, may constitute plagiarism. The use of any machine or third
party human to generate an assignment on behalf of a student is a form of academic
misconduct, that not only provides an unfair advantage but inhibits the development of crucial critical thinking skills by that student. Students should include a paragraph at the end of any
assignment that used Generative AI in compiling their submission, explaining which Generative
AI was used (including the version where relevant/known), what they used the Generative AI
for and how they used it to get the results/final submitted draft of their assignment. Failure to do
so is academic misconduct.
10.42. Examination Offences include, but are not limited to:
a) taking unauthorised material
1 into the examination room;
b) making use of unauthorised material in the examination room;
c) communicating or attempting to communicate in any way with another student during the examination;
d) failure to comply with an invigilator’s instructions;
e) being party to any arrangement whereby a person other than the student fraudulently represents, or intends to represent, the student at an examination.
f) any other breach of examination regulations (see Section 7) in which the student is seeking to gain an unfair advantage.
10.43. Examples of Dishonest Practice include but are not limited to:
a) offering a bribe or inducement to any staff (academic or administrative) involved in the
assessment process;
b) seeking to obtain access to confidential information e.g. examination questions, prior to the examination;
c) making false declarations to the Mitigating Circumstances Board
d) falsifying transcripts, certificates or other official University documentation relating to assessment outcomes.
10.44. This list is not exhaustive; any attempt on the part of one or more students to gain an unfair
advantage may be construed as academic misconduct and dealt with under these regulations,
irrespective of whether any benefit was gained by the student(s) concer ned.
Reporting Allegations of Academic Misconduct
Examination or Tests
10.45. If, during an examination, an invigilator believes that a student has engaged in academic
misconduct they shall normally inform the student and endorse the student’s answer book with
details of the alleged misconduct, the time the alleged misconduct was identified, and with their name. Any prohibited material will be removed and retained. The student shall then be
permitted to continue, in a new answer book. A written report of the incident shall be made on
the exam incident report form which must be submitted to the Campus Registry at the end of the exam. The Campus Registry should notify the Module Leader of the incident. A copy of
the student’s exam script, the incident report form, and any confiscated material should be
submitted within 5 working days to the Academic Standards Manager.
Other Assessments
1 Including but not limited to crib sheets, smart watches, mobile phones, and other electronic devices
10.46. Where any member of staff or student suspects that a student has committed academic
misconduct, they shall inform the Module Leader in writing as soon as is practicable, copied to
the Campus Registry Manager and the Academic Standards Manager.
10.47. Where an external examiner establishes that there is, in their view, evidence of academic misconduct, they shall notify the Module Leader.
Procedures in the event of suspected academic misconduct
10.48. Following the notification to the Module Leader, or nominee of a suspicion or allegation of
academic misconduct, the Module Leader, or nominee will review the evidence provided and in
the case of coursework normally within 15 working days of receipt of the allegation and in the
case of an examination normally within 5 working days of receipt of the allegation will reach one
of the following judgements;
a) that there is no case to answer, in which case the assessment will be marked as normal and without prejudice;
b) that, in the case of an allegation of plagiarism, the work reflects poor scholarship (e.g.
inappropriate or excessive use of sources and/or inappropriate referencing) but falls short of
academic misconduct, in which case the work will be returned for marking on its merits
2;
c) that academic misconduct has occurred, in which case the Module Leader, or nominee shall
provide a written report, including all relevant evidence, to the Academic Standards
Manager.
The report3 of academic misconduct shall:
i. specify the full name(s) and student ID number(s) of the student(s) to whom it relates;
ii. be signed and dated by the Module Leader;
iii. state the basis and the evidence on which the allegation has been made and be
accompanied by all the relevant evidence;
iv. provide details of the assessment, including the coursework or examination questions, the weighting of the item of assessment and any information provided to
students concerning academic conventions and practices that is relevant to the case.
d) that, in the case of an allegation of plagiarism or collusion, there is uncertainty on the part of the Module Leader regarding the authenticity of the student’s work, in which case a viva may be held to establish the authenticity of the work submitted and inform the Module
Leader’s judgement. The following procedures must apply:
i. two members of academic staff (at least one of whom must be a subject specialist) must be present .
ii. the student must be advised in advance in writing of the reason for the viva being
held, and must be given 5 working days notice of the viva date.
iii. staff present at the viva must make a record of the discussions; these may be used to form the evidence base for any future investigation. A copy of these records will be provided to the student.
iv. Where a student has been offered two separate dates for the viva and either does not reply within 5 working days , declines all two dates, or does not attend a previously
agreed date absent exceptional reason with supporting evidence, the Module Leader
will determine either;
a. that the work will be treated as a non-submission and a mark of zero will be
recorded for the assessment component. This decision must be reported to
the Academic Standards Manager. Or;
2 Mark on merits: where a piece of assessment is to be marked on its merits, the examiner should
normally discount any text which has been plagiarised and should award a mark based on the
academic value of the work that remains. The mark to be awarded shall be the academic judgement
of the examiner. This shall not be regarded as a penalty.
3 The academic misconduct report is completed and submitted via e: Vison
b. that academic misconduct has occurred, and the procedures as stated at
10.48 c) will be pursued. Or;
c. that academic misconduct has not occurred, in which case the assessment
will be marked as normal and without prejudice.
10.49. Upon receipt of a report of academic misconduct from a Module Leader or nominee, the
Academic Standards Manager shall refer to the Table of Penalties (below) and will determine,
in liaison with the Module Leader if required, the nature of the alleged offence and the
consequent offence category.
10.50. Where, in accordance with the Table of Penalties, the offence is deemed by the Academic Standards Manager to be a Category 1 offence (see Table of Penalties) and so is not
sufficiently serious to warrant referral to an Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing and where it is
the student’s first or second offence, the Academic Standards Manager shall, normally within
10 working days of receipt of the Module Leader’s report, determine the appropriate penalty to
be applied to such an offence and shall write to the st udent:
a) to present the allegation;
b) to confirm that it is the Module Leader’s, or nominee judgement that the student has
committed academic misconduct;
c) to provide the student with details of the allegation and copies of all of the evidence that has been submitted;
d) to inform the student of the penalty to be applied (note that while the Academic Standards
Manger may vary the penalty from that recommended by the Table of Penalties in
accordance with paragraph 10.28 above, the penalty may not be more severe than those
available as a Category 1 Penalty);
e) to invite the student to either:
i. admit the allegation and accept the penalty, in which case the penalty will be applied without further right to appeal, and this will constitute the completion of the University’s
internal procedures; or
ii. admit the allegation but not accept the penalty, in which case the matter will be referred
for consideration at an Academic Misconduct Meeting (see paragraphs 10.52 to 10.57
below); or
iii. deny the allegation, in which case the matter will be referred for consideration at an Academic Misconduct Meeting (see paragraphs 10.5 2 to 10.57 below).
f) to request that the student responds within 10 working days. Failure to respond within 10
working days will be regarded as an admission of the allegation and acceptance of the
penalty (see paragraph 10. 50 e) i.
10.51. Where, in accordance with the Table of Penalties, the offence is deemed by the Academic
Standards Manager to be a Category 2 offence (see Table of Penalties) and so is sufficiently
serious to warrant referral to an Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing, or where the alleged offence is the student’s third or subsequent offence, or where the Academic Standards
Manager is unable to determine the category of the alleged offence, the Academic Standards
Manager shall, normally within 30 working days of receipt of the Module Leader’s report,
convene a Hearing of the Academic Misconduct Panel. The Academic Standards Manager
shall write to the student, normally within 10 working days of receipt of the Module Leader’s
report, to advise the student of the allegation and that the matter is to be referred to an
Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing (see paragraphs 10.58 to 10.75 below).
Academic Misconduct Meeting
10.52. Where a student contests the allegation or the penalty in accordance with paragraph 10.50 e) ii,
or iii. above, the student will have the opportunity to present their case in person in a meeting
with the Chair of the College Teaching Committee or nominee, and a nominee of the Academic
Standards Manager. This is the Academic Misconduct Meeting.
10.53. The student will be offered a meeting date. If the student does not reply within 5 working days, the case will be considered closed. If a student does reply and indicates they are unable to
attend the first date offered, a second date will be provided. If the student either does not reply
within 5 working days, or declines the date without good reason, the penalty will be applied,
and the case will be considered closed. Where a student does not attend at a previously
agreed meeting the meeting will continue in their absence.
10.54. A student may choose to be accompanied by a friend (see regulation 10.6 above for a definition of ‘Friend’.)
10.55. As a result of an Academic Misconduct Meeting the College Teaching Committee or nominee, and nominee of the Academic Standards Manager will determine either:
a) that there is no case to answer, in which case the work will be marked as normal and without prejudice; or
b) that, in the case of an allegation of plagiarism, the work reflects poor scholarship (e.g. inappropriate or excessive use of sources and/or inappropriate referencing) but falls short of academic misconduct, in which case the work will be returned for marki ng on its merits;
or
c) that the student has committed academic misconduct, and that the original penalty stands; or
d) that the student has committed academic misconduct, however as a result of mitigating factors presented by the student a reduced penalty shall be imposed; or
e) that the student has committed academic misconduct, and a more severe penalty shall be
imposed (any penalty imposed must not be more severe than those available as a
Category 1 penalty in accordance with the Table of Penalties); or
f) that the student has committed academic misconduct, however new evidence suggests
that the offence is more serious than previously believed and, in accordance with the
Table of Penalties, warrants referral to the Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing; or
g) that it is unclear whether or not the student has committed academic misconduct, in which case the matter shall be referred to the Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing.
10.56. In determining an appropriate penalty, the Chair of the College Teaching Committee or nominee, and nominee of the Academic Standards Manager, shall bear in mind the implications of that penalty in the context of the academic regulations.
10.57. On completion of the Academic Misconduct Meeting, the Academic Standards Manager will write to the student concerned, normally within 10 working days of the Meeting, advising them
of the decision of the Meeting, including the reasons for that decision, and of their right to
appeal (see regulation 10.76). At this stage a student may only appeal where the Academic Misconduct Meeting has determined either 10.55 c), d) e). Where the Academic Misconduct
Meeting has determined either 10.55 f) or g) the matter is referred to the Academic Misconduct
Panel Hearing and the student will only have a right of appeal upon the conclusion of that Hearing.
Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing
10.58. An Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing will be convened in the following circumstances:
a) where, in accordance with the Table of Penalties, the alleged offence is sufficiently serious
to warrant referral to an Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing (see paragraph 10.51 and
10.55 f) above); or
b) where the alleged offence is the student’s third or subsequent offence (see paragraph 10.51 above); or
c) where, following an Academic Misconduct Meeting, it is unclear whether or not the student
has committed academic misconduct (see paragraph 10.55 g) above).
10.59. An Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing will be convened by the Academic Standards
Manager, normally within 30 working days of receipt of the Module Leader’s report or of the determination of the Academic Misconduct Meeting.
10.60. The membership of an Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing shall be as follows:
a) Head of College, or nominee from a College other than that in which the student is/was studying (Chair);
b) Two members of academic staff, who are not known to, or have not at any time taught, the
student concerned; and
c) A student
4 member, nominated by the Students’ Union, who is not known to the Student
and who has had no prior involvement in the case.
The Academic Standards Manager shall act as Secretary to the Panel.
10.61. The quorum for a Hearing of an Academic Misconduct Panel shall be three, including the Chair.
10.62. The Academic Standards Manager shall write to the student, normally within 10 working days
of receipt of the Module Leader’s report or of the determination of the Academic Misconduct Meeting. The letter shall: advise the student of the allegation that has been made;
a) advise the student that the case will be considered by an Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing;
b) enclose all evidence received to date;
c) enclose a copy of these regulations;
d) advise the student that they will be notified of the date of the Hearing in due course;
e) advise the student of their right to attend the Hearing, to submit a written statement, to call witnesses to attend the Hearing (and that it will be the Student’s responsibility to arrange attendance), and for witnesses to submit written statements;
f) advise the student of their right to be accompanied at the Hearing by a Friend, and who may act as a Friend (see definition of Friend)
10.63. The Academic Standards Manager, acting as Secretary to the Panel, shall identify witnesses and other individuals who might be able to facilitate the establishment of the facts of the case.
The Academic Standards Manager shall invite all such individuals to submit a written statement
detailing what they know of the case, and to attend the Hearing. Such individuals cannot be
compelled to attend the Hearing. Where the allegation has been brought by the Module Leader,
the Module Leader will be expected to attend.
10.64. The student against whom the allegation has been made may also invite witnesses to submit a written statement and to attend the hearing. The names of any such witnesses, along with any
written statements, must be submitted to the Academic Standards Manager at least four
working days before the Hearing in order to allow the Panel sufficient time to consider the
documentation.
10.65. The student may also submit a written statement in support of their case. This must be submitted to the Academic Standards Manager at least four working days before the Hearing.
10.66. Once the date of the Hearing is confirmed and all evidence in support of the allegation has been received, Academic Standards shall write to the student again, at least ten working days
in advance of the hearing. This letter shall: confirm the date, time and venue of the Hearing;
a) inform the student of the names of the Panel members;
b) set out in detail the allegation that has been made;
c) enclose and itemise all evidence in support of the allegation which the Hearing will be considering;
4 For the purpose of this regulation, ‘student’ shall be deemed to include a sabbatical officer of the
Students’ Union
d) invite the student to submit a written statement and any other evidence in support of their
case, including witness statements, and confirm the deadline for their submission;
e) remind the Student of their right to be accompanied by a Friend who may speak on their
behalf (see definition of Friend); invite the Student to submit the names of any and all
witnesses that they will be calling to attend the Hearing, and confirm the deadline for this
submission;
f) enclose a copy of these regulations;
g) advise the student that should they fail to attend, the Hearing will proceed in their absence.
10.67. Following the deadline for receipt of the student’s submission of written statements, evidence,
and names of witnesses, the Academic Standards Manager will collate all documentation and,
at least three working days before the Hearing, circulate to Panel members and to the student,
along with an agenda and an itemised list of all evidence to be considered.
10.68. The Panel shall have absolute discretion to regulate its own procedures, but will normally conduct its hearing as follows:
• The Chair will explain the process to be followed, will detail the allegations that have
been made, and will summarise the evidence that has been received in support of those
allegations;
• The Panel will ask questions of the Student and all witnesses;
• The Student and all witnesses will answer questions for the Panel;
• The Student will have the opportunity, through the Chair, to ask questions of the
witnesses and to make a final presentation to the Panel;
• The Panel will deliberate in private;
• The Chair will present the findings and the reasons for the decisions of the Panel, or
advise The Student(s) that these will be forwarded to them in writing, normally within ten
working days of the Hearing;
• a formal record shall be kept of the Panel meeting.
10.69. The student will have the right to be present throughout the Hearing in order to hear all of the evidence presented. However, the absence of the student will not prevent the hearing from
taking place, nor invalidate the proceedings.
10.70. Where the Panel determines that an offence has been committed, the Panel shall be guided by
but not constrained by the penalty tariff.
10.71. In the event that the Panel does not reach a consensus, the Chair will have a deciding vote.
10.72. When determining the sanction, the Panel will take into account the following factors:
Severity of Offence
The sanction applied will reflect the severity of the offence, taking into account the obligations
on the University to uphold its academic standards and reputation.
Previous Offences
Where a student has previously admitted or been found by an Academic Misconduct Panel or
an Academic Misconduct Meeting, to have committed an offence of academic misconduct the
sanction applied will normally be more severe than had it been the student’s fi rst offence.
Impact on Other Students
Where the offence has had, could have had, or was intended to have an adverse effect on the
standing or wellbeing of another student or students, the sanction applied may be more severe than had this not been the case. The Panel may additionally refer a student for disciplinary
action in accordance with the University’s Student Disciplinary Regulations.
Weighting of Assessment task
An offence committed in respect of a high weighting assessment task, such as a final year
dissertation or project, may be penalised more severely than an offence in respect of a lower weighting task.
10.73. Once the Hearing is concluded and all evidence has been considered, the Panel will determine
either :
a) that there is no case to answer, in which case the work will be marked as normal and
without prejudice; or
b) that, in the case of an allegation of plagiarism, the work reflects poor scholarship (e.g.
inappropriate or excessive use of sources and/or inappropriate referencing) but falls short
of academic misconduct, in which case the work will be returned for marki ng on its merits5;
or
c) that the student has committed academic misconduct, in which case the Panel will agree
an appropriate penalty.
10.74. In addition to the penalties that are available for Category 1 offences (see Table of Penalties), the Panel may impose one of the following penalties:
a) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components within the module;
b) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components within the module with no
right to referral;
c) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components within the module with no
right to re-assessment;
d) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components at that level;
e) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components at that level with no right to referral;
f) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components at that level with no right to re-assessment;
g) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components at that level and be
permanently excluded (expelled) from the University;
h) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components for that course and be
permanently excluded (expelled) from the University;
i) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components at that level and the student’s award be revoked. This decision must be approved by Academic Council in
accordance with regulations 20.20 – 20.22;
j) that the student be awarded 0% for all assessment components for that course and the student’s award be revoked. This decision must be approved by Academic Council in
accordance with regulations 20.20 – 20.22;
10.75. On completion of the Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing, the Academic Standards Manager
will write to the student concerned, normally within 10 working days of the hearing, advising
them of the decision of the hearing, including the reasons for that decision, and of their right to appeal (see regulation 10.76).
Appeals
10.76. Where a student is dissatisfied with the outcome of an Academic Misconduct Meeting or an Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing, a student may submit an appeal to be considered by the
Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards).
10.77. An appeal must be submitted, along with all relevant evidence, to the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) within 10 working days of the publication of the decision being appealed.
10.78. An appeal may be based on one or both of the following grounds only:
5 Mark on merits: where a piece of assessment is to be marked on its merits, the examiner should
normally discount any text which has been plagiarised and should award a mark based on the
academic value of the work that remains. The mark to be awarded shall be the academic judgement
of the examiner. This shall not be regarded as a penalty.
a) that new evidence has become available which has a direct bearing on the case, which
was not, and which could not reasonably have been made available at the time the case
was considered; or
b) that there has been material irregularity in the conduct of the academic misconduct
process.
10.79. The appeal request will be acknowledged normally within 5 working days of its receipt.
10.80. The Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) will consider the appeal and make one of the
following determinations normally within 20 working days. In considering the appeal the Deputy
Registrar (Quality and Standards) may seek further information or clarification from the student
or from any person involved in the case:
a) that one or more of the grounds for appeal have been met, in which case the appeal is upheld, and the case will be referred back to either the Academic Misconduct Meeting or the
Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing, as appropriate, to be considered afresh. The Deputy
Registrar (Quality and Standards) may also make recommendations to the Meeting or Panel Hearing.
b) That neither ground for appeal has been met, in which case the appeal is rejected, and the University’s internal procedures will be complete.
10.81. Following the completion of the University’s internal procedures, the student may be eligible to
apply to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator (OIA) for an external review of the appeal. Information of the OIA’s procedure is available online: www.oiahe.org.uk .
Appendix 1
Table of Penalties
The University strives to ensure fairness and consistency across the Colleges in the application of
penalties and has adopted a Table of Penalties for use. The principle behind the table is simple and
serves to ensure that all students are aware of the possible penalties that they may receive if they are
found guilty of academic misconduct.
In accordance with paragraph 10.27, the penalties stated below are recommendations. Each body
which imposes a penalty has the discretion to vary the penalty it can impose but must provide clear
reasons as to why they have varied the penalty.
In accordance with paragraph 10.5 1, where a Category 1 offence is a third or subsequent offence, it
may be referred to the Academic Misconduct Panel Hearing and a more severe penalty may be
applied.
This list of offences is not exhaustive. Where an alleged offence, or near equivalent, is not
represented in this table the Academic Standards Manager will normally, in accordance with
paragraph 10.51, refer the matter to be considered at a hearing of the Academic Misconduct Panel.
Refer to paragraph 10.74 for the penalties available to the Academic Misconduct Panel.
Table 1 - Plagiarism Penalty Table
Offence Extent6 L3 / L4 L5 / L6 / L7
1st offence
Subsequent Offences for all levels
Fully referenced but closely
paraphrased / excessive
use of sources
Any amount Poor scholarship-no misconduct-mark on merits* Poor scholarship-no
misconduct-mark on
merits*
Unreferenced Closely
paraphrased7, but not
verbatim. Less than 10% of
work CATEGORY 1
Formal warning-mark on merits* CATEGORY 1
Formal warning-mark on
merits*
Unreferenced Closely
paraphras ed, but not
verbatim. Between 10% and
50% of the work CATEGORY 1
Formal warning-mark on merits* CATEGORY 1
Mark on merits*, but mark for assessment
component capped at pass mark
Unreferenced Closely
paraphrased, but not verbatim. Above 50% of the
work CATEGORY 1
Mark on merits*, but mark for assessment component capped
at pass mark CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment component
Unreferenced Closely
paraphrase d, but not
verbatim. 100% of the work CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment
component CATEGORY 2
Mark of 0% for all
assessment components
in module, at discretion of Academic Misconduct
Panel.
Unreferenced and
verbatim8 (no quotation
marks) Less than 10% of the
work CATEGORY 1
Formal warning-mark on merits* CATEGORY 1
Mark on merits*, but mark
for assessment
component capped at
pass mark
Unreferenced and verbatim
(no quotation marks) Between 10% and
50% of the work. CATEGORY 1
Mark on merits*, but mark for assessment
component capped at pass mark CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment component
6 This is an approximate value and is not to be based on the percentage indicated by Turnitin or Safe Assign. These systems
are only a tool to detect potential plagiarism; they are not ‘plagiarism detection systems’. Academic judgment is required to
determine whether a student may have plagiarised.
7 Changing key words and phrases but retaining the essential content of the original source material
8 Where content corresponds directly to the original source text
Unreferenced and verbatim
(no quotation marks) Above 50% of the
work CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment component CATEGORY 2
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in module, at discretion of
Academic Misconduct
Panel.
Unreferenced and verbati m
(no quotation marks) 100% of the work CATEGORY 2
Mark of 0% for all
assessment
components in module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel. CATEGORY 2
Mark of 0% for all assessment components
in module, at discretion of Academic Misconduct
Panel.
Unreferenced and verbatim
(no quotation marks) Any amount
Submission of work
either purchased, commissioned or
purloined from, or
otherwise provided by, a third party CATEGORY 2
Mark of 0% for all assessment components within
the module with no
right to referral at
discretion of
Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2
Mark 0% for all
assessment components within the module with no
right to referral at
discretion of Academic Misconduct Panel.
Table 2 - Penalty Tables for offences other than Plagiarism
Assessment Type: Examination and In Class Tests
Offence L3 / L4
1st offence
Penalty L3 / L4
Subsequent offences
Penalty L5 / L6 / L7
Penalty
L5 / L6 / L7
Subsequent
offences
Penalty
Removing any
script, paper, or
other official stationery (whether
completed or not)
from the examination room,
unless specifically
authorised by an
invigilator or
examiner. CATEGORY 1
Mark on
merits*, but mark for
assessment
component capped at
pass mark
CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment component CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for assessment component CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in
module, at
discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel.
Failing to comply
with the reasonable
instructions of an invigilator or
examiner. CATEGORY 1
Formal
warning CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for assessment component CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for assessment component CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in
module, at
discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel.
Possession of
unauthorised
material of any kind
other than those
specifically
permitted in the rubric of the paper
during the
examination (including in toilets
and other locations
during the
examination) CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for assessment component
CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for assessment component CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for assessment component CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in
module, at
discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel.
Attempting to
communicate with another student or
with any third party other than the
invigilator/examiner
during an examination or in
class test. This
includes communication via
social media,
WhatsApp and any other type of
communication. CATEGORY 1
Formal
warning CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for assessment
component CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment
component CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment
components in module, at
discretion of
Academic Misconduct Panel.
Communicating
with another
student or with any
third party other
than the invigilator /
examiner during an examination or in
class test. This
includes communication via
social media,
WhatsApp and any other type of
communication. CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment
component CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment
component CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment
component CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment
components in
module, at
discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel.
Making use of
unauthorised material or
accessing the internet in
contravention of the
examination rubric in the examination
room or otherwise
during the
examination
(including in toilets and other locations
during the
examination)
CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment
component CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for
all assessment
components in module, at
discretion of
Academic Misconduct
Panel. CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment
components in module, at
discretion of
Academic Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2
Mark 0% for all
assessment
components within the module with no
right to referral at
discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel.
Being party to any
arrangement
whereby a person
other than the
student fraudulently
represents, or intends to
represent, the
student at an
examination CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in
module, at
discretion of Academic
Misconduct
Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in
module, at
discretion of Academic
Misconduct
Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in
module, at
discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2
Mark 0% for all
assessment components within
the module with no
right to referral at discretion of
Academic
Misconduct Panel.
During an
examination or in
class test, copying
or attempting to copy the work of
another student,
whether by overlooking their
work, asking them
for information, or by any other
means. CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment
component CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for
all assessment
components in module, at
discretion of
Academic Misconduct
Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment
components in module, at
discretion of
Academic Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2
Mark 0% for all
assessment
components within the module with no
right to referral at
discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel.
Assessment Type Coursework
Offence L3 / L4
1st offence
Penalty L3 / L4
Subsequent offences
Penalty L5 / L6 / L7
Penalty
Making available work to
another student, either
intentionally or as a result
of negligence that can be
presented as another students. CATEGORY 1
Formal warning CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for assessment
component CATEGORY 1
Mark on merits*, but mark
for assessment component capped at
pass mark
Representation of work
produced in collaboration
with another student as the
work of a single student (collusion). CATEGORY 1
Mark on merits*, but
mark for assessment
component capped at pass mark CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment
component CATEGORY 1
Mark of 0% for
assessment component
Unauthorised access of
another student’s work,
without the student’s
knowledge. CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment
components in
module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment
components in
module, at discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components
in module, at discretion of
Academic Misconduct Panel
Assessment Type: Dishonest Practice
Offence L3 / L4
1st offence
Penalty L3 / L4
Subsequent
offences
Penalty L5 / L6 / L7
Penalty
Offering a bribe or
inducement to any staff
(academic or
administrative) involved in the assessment process CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment
components in module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment
components in module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components
in module, at discretion of Academic Misconduct
Panel
Seeking to obtain access to
confidential information e.g.
examination questions, prior to the examination CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in
module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment components in
module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in module, at discretion of
Academic Misconduct
Panel
Making false declarations to
the Mitigating Circumstances Board CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment
components in
module, at discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment
components in
module, at discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components
in module, at discretion of
Academic Misconduct Panel
Falsifying transcripts,
certificates or other official University documentation relating to assessment
outcomes CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment components in
module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in
module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment components in module, at discretion of
Academic Misconduct
Panel
Fabrication of data refers to
the falsification of data (either qualitative or
quantitative), through
invention or amendment, which is then presented by
the student as if it had been
legitimately gathered in line with the norms of the
discipline concerned. CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all assessment
components in
module, at discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment
components in
module, at discretion of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment components
in module, at discretion of
Academic Misconduct Panel
In the case of professional
qualifications, falsely
claiming to have completed
hours in practice or to have
achieved required
competencies when this is
not the case . CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment
components in
module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment
components in
module, at discretion
of Academic
Misconduct Panel CATEGORY 2:
Mark of 0% for all
assessment components
in module, at discretion of
Academic Misconduct
Panel
* Mark on merits: where a piece of assessment is to be marked on its merits, the examiner should
normally discount any text which has been plagiarised and should award a mark based on the
academic value of the work that remains. The mark to be awarded shall be the academic judgement
of the examiner. This shall not be regarded as a penalty
Part 3: Assessment regulations for taught courses
Section 11: Mitigating circumstances (MCs)
Purpose
11.1. The U
niversity recognises that, at times, our students may face challenges entirely outside their
control which impair their ability to achieve to their maximum potential. The purpose of these
regulations is to provide a framework to enable all students to be assessed on equal terms, by
allowing students facing such challenges to delay taking an assessment until a time when they
are no longer impaired. These regulations therefore allow a student to apply for an extension or a deferral:
a)in an assessment where the student is prevented, due to circumstances beyond theircontrol, from taking that assessment by or on the published date; or, exceptionallyb)in an assessment taken by the student which was adversely affected by thosecircumstances.
These regulations also seek to balance this objective with the need to ensure that no student
can abuse the mitigating circumstances process in order to gain an unfair advantage over other
students, by using the process inappropriately or excessively.
Scope
11.2. These
regulations are applicable to all students on taught courses leading to an undergraduate
or postgraduate award of the University at level 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7.
11.3. This
includes all students on taught courses leading to an undergraduate or postgraduate
award validated by the University but delivered under a collaborative arrangement with a
partner institution, unless otherwise agreed at the point of validation or in accordance with
normal procedures for making any change.
Definitions
11.4. Mitigating circumstances: circumstances which are acute, serious, unforeseen and
unpreventable that significantly impair a student’s ability to take an assessment by or on the
published due date.
11.5. Self-certification : a mechanism by which a student is able to submit a mitigating circumstance
claim without providing independent supporting evidence.
11.6. Extension: applying only to coursework, the granting of an extension allows a student an
additional five working days1 beyond the published due date to submit the assessment
component without penalty. This deadline extension provides for the assessment to be marked in good time for the mark to be considered by the scheduled Progression and Award Board.
11.7. Deferral of an Assessment Component : applying to coursework, scheduled assessments, or
exams, the granting of a deferral of an assessment component allows a student to delay taking
the assessment until the next occasion that that assessment is due or scheduled (see paragraph 11.57 below) without penalty and without further attendance. Exceptionally, a
deferral may be granted in respect of an assessment component that a student has taken (see
paragraph 11.72 below).
1 A working day is a day, other than a Saturday, Sunday or bank holiday, when the University is open.
11.8. Deferral of a Module : applying to a whole module, the granting of a deferral of a module
allows a student to delay taking the module, and all summative assessment components
associated with that module, until the next occasion that that module is delivered, without
penalty. The student will be required to attend all timetabled teaching and learning events
associated with that next delivery of the module. Exceptionally, a deferral may be granted in respect of a module where a student has taken one or more assessment components (see
paragraph 11.72 below).
11.9. Assessment component : a discrete assessment activity within a module, identified as a
distinct assessment component on the module pro forma.
11.10. Coursework : a summative assessment component taken by way of submission of work on or
before a published due date.
11.11. Scheduled assessment: a summative assessment component usually taken outside the
formal examination period, but which is required to be taken at a specified time (e.g. in-class
tests, lab tests, presentations, practicals, vivas, performances etc.).
11.12. Exam : a summative assessment component taken by way of an examination (which could be
either physical or on-line) at a specified time during the formal examination period.
11.13. Due date : in relation to coursework, this is the deadline for the submission of the assessment
component. In relation to a scheduled assessment or exam, this is the date on which that
assessment or exam is scheduled to be held.
Principles
11.14. In accordance with Part 5 of the Academic Regulations , all students who take an assessment
are, in doing so, declaring themselves fit to be assessed. This is known as the ‘Fit to Sit’ policy.
It is the responsibility of the student to determine if they are fit to take an assessment. Where a
student takes an assessment and also submits a mitigating circumstance claim in respect of
that assessment, the claim will be rejected and the mark achieved in that assessment will stand.
Exceptionally (see paragraphs 11.71 to 11.79 below), a mitigating circumstances claim may be accepted, and a student may be granted a deferral in respect of an assessment component or
module that they have taken, but only where the student can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of
the University, that due to the nature of the mitigating circumstances the student was not aware
that they were not fit to be assessed when deciding to take that assessment.
11.15. Assessment marks and award classifications cannot be changed as a result of mitigating circumstances. The only exceptions to this are:
a) where a claim is accepted in respect of an assessment that has already been awarded a mark of 0 (zero) due to non-submission or non-attendance; or, exceptionally,
b) where the result of an assessment is set aside (see paragraph 11.77 below)
11.16. Responsibility for consideration of mitigating circumstances claims rests with the Mitigating
Circumstances Boards, which are acting under the delegated authority of the relevant
Progression and Award Board. Operationally, this responsibility is delegated to appropriate members of University staff (see paragraph 11.41 below).
11.17. The confidential nature of information provided by students in support of an application for
mitigating circumstances will be respected by the University in compliance with relevant data
protection legislation. Confidential information will be shared with University colleagues involved in considering the claim. The University may also share a student’s details with
relevant University support services (e.g. Counselling or Disability Support services) where,
due to the nature of the claim or the number of claims submitted, such support may be
beneficial to the student’s wellbeing. All University colleagues are required to keep applications
securely to avoid unauthorised access or other breaches of information security.
11.18. All claims and evidence will be kept by the University for the duration of time as stated in the University’s Records Retention Policy, after which the evidence shall be destroyed.
11.19. Students with a disability for whom agreed Reasonable Adjustments are in place, and which include an extension to coursework submission deadlines, are not required to submit a
mitigating circumstance claim in respect of such extensions.
11.20. Students with a disability for whom agreed Reasonable Adjustments are in place may apply for an additional extension or a deferral via the Mitigating Circumstances process where:
a) the University has been unable to provide all the support detailed in the Learning Support Entitlements, or
b) the Reasonable Adjustment Form states it can be used as evidence for a mitigating circumstance claims, or
c) the student otherwise demonstrates that the claim complies with these regulations.
Outcomes
11.21. There are three possible outcomes to a successful mitigating circumstances claim:
a) Extension, or
b) Deferral of an assessment component, or
c) Deferral of a module
11.22. The student must specify which outcome they are seeking at the time of submitting their
mitigating circumstances claim.
11.23. As stated at paragraphs 11.6 above, an extension can be granted in respect of coursework only. A deferral can be granted in respect of coursework, scheduled assessments, examinations, and whole modules.
Grounds
11.24. In order for a mitigating circumstances claim to be accepted, the student must demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the University, that the mitigating circumstances:
a) were outside the student’s control; and
b) were unforeseen and unforeseeable; and
c) were true; and
d) were related directly to the timing of the assessment component(s) for which the claim is submitted (i.e. that they occurred at the same time as the due date, or during the
preparation period immediately prior to the due date); and
e) either:
i. prevented the student from taking the assessment on or by the due date; or
ii. would have materially impaired the student’s ability to perform to their potential.
11.25. The following are common examples of mitigating circumstances for which a claim might be accepted (this list is not exhaustive):
a) Serious short-term illness (of a nature which in an employment context would lead to an
absence on sick leave);
b) Death of a close relative (spouse, parent, child) or partner (of a nature which in an employment context would lead to an absence on compassionate leave);
c) Sudden and unexpected deterioration of a long-term condition (it is expected that students
who have on-going / long-term medical conditions which cannot be effectively managed,
and which are adversely impacting their ability to study, will either apply to the Disability
Learning Support service for ongoing Reasonable Adjustments or, where that is not
appropriate, seek to interrupt their studies until they are fit to return);
d) Where a scheduled assessment or exam is held on a religious observance date (subject to
the University’s Faith and Spirituality team being able to confirm that the assessment
coincides with a day of religious observance)2
11.26. The following are examples of circumstances for which a claim will not normally be accepted (this list is not exhaustive):
a) Medical circumstances that occurred outside the relevant assessment period;
b) Holiday/employment commitments;
c) Financial difficulties (other than where these were sudden and unexpected);
d) Poor study practice;
e) Ignorance of assessment due dates / times;
f) Poor time management.
Evidence
11.27. Claims that are not eligible for self-certification (see paragraph 11.62 below) must be supported
by original independent documentary evidence. This must be an official document, for example a signed letter on official headed paper, and must include the dates during which the
circumstances applied. The evidence must demonstrate the effect the circumstances had on the student’s ability to take the assessment.
11.28. Medical evidence must be obtained from the person, practice or institution that diagnosed or assessed the illness/injury at the time it occurred. Evidence that a student reported that they
were ill, or which does not include a clear diagnosis, will not be accepted.
11.29. Written evidence from Complementary Therapists will only be considered where the University is satisfied that the therapist is a member of a recognised and reputable professional body.
11.30. The University's Counselling Service will only provide statements for mitigating circumstances
claims where a student has received support over a period relevant to the claim in question. Letters will not be provided at the first meeting with a Counsellor or Advisor.
11.31. Reasonable Adjustment forms can be used as evidence for Mitigating Circumstances only where this is detailed on the form.
11.32. Where evidence is not presented in English, it is the student’s responsibility to have it independently translated by an accredited translator, prior to submission.
11.33. The University reserves the right to check the authenticity of all documentation submitted as part of a mitigating circumstances claim. Where it is suspected that a student has submitted
evidence that is not genuine, they may be referred for consideration in accordance with the
University’s Academic Misconduct Regulations.
Submission of Claims
11.34. All mitigating circumstances claims must be submitted by completing the relevant form available online via e:Vision, via the Student Hub.
11.35. A mitigating circumstances claim must relate to one or more identified assessment
components, or to a whole module (where the claim relates to all assessment components
within that module).
11.36. The University expects students to declare any mitigating circumstances as soon as they become aware of them. To ensure that Progression and Award Boards are able to make
2 Refer to Religion, Belief and Study: Code of Practice to Support Students for further information.
decisions at the appropriate time, all mitigating circumstances claims must be submitted by the
relevant deadline as determined annually by the Office of the Academic Registrar and
published on the Student Hub. Additional regulations relating to deadlines apply to students
self-certifying their mitigating circumstances (see paragraph 11.68 below).
11.37. Exceptionally, mitigating circumstances submitted after this deadline may be considered where one of the following grounds, in addition to the grounds stated at paragraph 11.24 above, is
met:
a) the mitigating circumstances were unknown to, or unrecognised by, the student until after the relevant published deadline for the submission of mitigating circumstances; or
b) where the mitigating circumstances were known to the student prior to the relevant deadline, the student had a valid reason for not disclosing them at that time. Choosing not
to declare mitigating circumstances due to their personal nature will not normally be accepted as a valid reason for not disclosing those circumstances at the appropriate time.
Where a student submits a mitigating circumstances claim after this deadline, they must submit evidence to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the University, that one of these grounds has been
met. As evidence is required, students may not self-certify, a nd must also submit evidence in
accordance with paragraphs 11.27 to 11.33 above.
11.38. Under no circumstances will mitigating circumstances be considered or accepted where they
are submitted more than one calendar year after the relevant published deadline.
11.39. Students may not submit duplicate or multiple claims in respect of the same assessment component. Where a student attempts to submit such a duplicate claim, only the first claim submitted will be considered and all subsequent claims will be rejected.
11.40. While all mitigating circumstances claims will be considered, and the outcome communicated to the student, as soon as is practicable, where the claim is submitted close to, or after, the
assessment due date it is likely (or certain, where the claim is submitted after the due date) that
the outcome will not be notified prior to that due date. It is the responsibility of the student to
determine if they are fit to take an assessment, and thus to make a judgement as to whether to
submit the coursework assessment by the due date or to attend the scheduled assessment or exam. If the claim is submitted in accordance with these regulations and all relevant grounds
and criteria have been met, then the student can be confident that the claim will be accepted.
Where a student chooses to submit the coursework assessment by the deadline or take the
scheduled assessment or exam, the provisions of paragraph 11.14 above will apply, and the
mitigating circumstances claim will be rejected.
Consideration of Claims
11.41. All mitigating circumstances claims will be considered individually by appropriately trained members of University staff acting under delegated authority of the Mitigating Circumstances
Board.
11.42. Self-certified claims will normally be considered by one member of staff. Claims submitted with
accompanying evidence will normally be considered by at least two members of staff.
11.43. Mitigating Circumstances Boards will, at least twice in each academic year, audit a sample of mitigating circumstances claims and the decisions made, to ensure that claims are being considered consistently and appropriately.
11.44. All claims will be considered against the requirements of these regulations only.
11.45. Where the student is known to a member of staff, other than in their professional capacity, that member of staff must declare an interest and may not participate in the consideration of that
student’s claim.
11.46. Mitigating circumstances claims will be rejected where they do not meet the requirements as
stated in these regulations.
11.47. Where a claim is rejected, details of why a claim was unsuccessful will be made available to the student, normally via e: Vision and email.
11.48. A student will have one further, final opportunity to re-submit a claim in respect of an
assessment component for which a claim has previously been rejected. This must be based on
new or additional evidence, which must be submitted with the claim. The submission of such a second claim must be made within 30 calendar days of notification of the outcome of the initial
claim. Exceptionally, the second claim may be considered if submitted after this deadline, but
only where the student can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the University, that the new or
additional evidence was not available or otherwise could not have been submitted prior to this
deadline. Students are not permitted to re-submit a mitigating circumstance claim by self-certification. Such a second claim will not be regarded as a duplicate claim for the purposes of
paragraph 11.39 above).
11.49. Where a student is dissatisfied with the outcome of a mitigating circumstances claim, they have a right to submit an academic appeal. The only ground upon which such an appeal can be
made is that there has been a material irregularity in the conduct of the mitigating
circumstances process (refer to the University’s Academic Appeal Regulations for further
information).
Claims in Respect of Extensions
11.50. Where a mitigating circumstance claim in respect of an extension to a coursework assessment
is accepted, the student must submit the coursework assessment no later than five working
days after the original due date.
11.51. Where a student has not received the outcome of their claim for an extension by the due date, but the student wishes to proceed on the assumption that the claim will be accepted (see
paragraph 11.40 above), the student must submit the coursework assessment no later than five
working days after the original due date.
11.52. Where a claim for an extension is accepted, and the assessment is submitted no later than five
working days after the original due date, the work will be marked without penalty.
11.53. Where a claim for an extension is accepted, and the assessment is submitted late but within 24 hours of the extended deadline, in accordance with the Coursework Assessment Regulations
the assessment will be marked, and ten marks will be deducted from the original mark to the
pass mark (40% at undergraduate level, 50% at postgraduate level).
11.54. Where a claim for an extension is accepted, but the assessment is submitted more than 24 hours after the extended deadline, a mark of 0 (zero) will be awarded for the assessment in
question.
11.55. Where a claim for an extension is rejected, but the assessment is submitted no later than 24 hours after the original due date, in accordance with the Coursework Assessment Regulations
the work will be marked, and 10 marks will be deducted from the original mark, to a minimum of
the pass mark (40 at undergraduate level, 50 at postgraduate level).
11.56. Where a claim for an extension is rejected, and the student fails to submit the assessment within 24 hours of the original due date, a mark of 0 (zero) will be awarded.
11.57. Where a claim for an extension is submitted, but the student also submits the assessment by
the original due date, the provisions of paragraph 11.13 above will apply, and the mitigating circumstances claim will be rejected.
Claims in Respect of Deferrals3
11.58. Where a mitigating circumstance claim in respect of a deferral of one or more identified
assessment components is accepted, the student will be deferred in those assessment
components. When deferred at Assessment Peri od 2 the student will normally be required to
take the assessment(s), without attendance, during Assessment Period 3 the Referral/Deferral
period. When deferred at the Assessment Period 3 the student will normally be required to take the assessment(s) for that module without attendance, during the following academic year.
11.59. Where a mitigating circumstance claim in respect of a deferral of a whole module is accepted, the student will be deferred in the module and will be given an opportunity to re-attend and re-attempt all assessment components associated with that module on the next occasion that that module is delivered, normally during the following academic year. The student will be required
to attend all timetabled teaching and learning events associated with that next delivery of the module. Re-attendance in these circumstances shall not count as a further attempt at the
module for the purposes of calculating the maximum permitted number of attempts.
11.60. Where a claim for a deferral is rejected, and the student has either not submitted the
coursework assessment or not attended the scheduled assessment or exam, a mark of 0 (zero)
will be awarded for the assessments in question in accordance with the standard protocols for non-submission and non-attendance.
11.61. Where a claim for a deferral is submitted, but the student either submits the coursework assessment by the original due date or attends the scheduled assessment or exam (except for
where the student is taken ill during a scheduled assessment or exam-see paragraphs 11.69
and 11.75 below or where the claim is submitted and accepted as an exception to the Fit To Sit
Policy – see paragraphs 11.71 to 11.79 below), the provisions of paragraph 11.14 above will
apply, and the mitigating circumstances claim will be rejected.
Self-Certification
11.62. Self-certification is intended for use in relation to short-term issues which impact on a student’s
ability to take an assessment over a single period not exceeding five working days.
Examples of mitigating circumstances for which self-certification is intended include short-term
illnesses for which the student is unable, or for which it is not appropriate, to obtain
contemporaneous medical advice or evidence, such as:
• Migraine
• Norovirus
• Gastroenteritis
• Period pain
• Flu
• Food poisoning
• Diarrhoea
• (This list is not exhaustive).
Other examples include a sudden bereavement in the student’s close family, a short-term
mental health issue, IT failure, or unforeseen carer responsibilities on the due date.
Minor ailments, such as coughs and colds, are not regarded as sufficiently serious to
significantly impair a student’s ability to take an assessment, and thus do not meet the
definition of mitigating circumstances.
3 Students should be aware that where a claim for deferral is accepted at the Referral/Deferral
assessment period, a continuing student will not be able to progress to the next year of study if the
progression requirements have not been met (refer to Part 5 of the Academic Regulations for further
information), and a final year student will have a delay to their completion date and may have their attendance at a graduation ceremony delayed.
11.63. Students choosing to self-certify are expected not to abuse this process, and to only self-certify
where their circumstances are genuine and meet these requirements. Any student who is
believed to be abusing the self-certification process in order to gain an unfair advantage may
be referred for consideration in accordance with the University’s Academic Misconduct
Regulations .
11.64. Students may not use the self-certification process for mitigating circumstances which impact
them for more than five working days. Nor may students use the self-certification process to
request a deferral in a whole module. In such circumstances, appropriate evidence must be
obtained and submitted in accordance with paragraphs 11.27 to 11.33 above.
11.65. As the circumstances to which the self-certification claim relates must impact the student for no
more than five working days, and must, in accordance with paragraph 11.24 d) above, occur at
the same time as the due date, or during the preparation period immediately prior to the due date, a self-certification claim may not be submitted more than 10 working days before the due
date.
11.66. Students are permitted to submit a maximum of two self-certified mitigating circumstances
claims each academic year. Where multiple assessments are impacted within the same five-day period, these can be claimed for in a single self-certified mitigating circumstance claim and
will count as only one claim. Claims for assessments that do not fall within this five-day period
will be rejected.
11.67. Self-certified claims may only be submitted to request:
a) an extension, in respect of a coursework assessment component; or
b) a deferral, in respect of a scheduled assessment or exam.
11.68. Self-certification may not be used to request a deferral in respect of a coursework assessment
component. Self-certification may only be used in cases of short-term mitigating circumstances
where the impact does not exceed five working days. It is therefore expected that students
experiencing short-term mitigating circumstances will be able to submit coursework within the
five additional days, and thus not require a deferral.
11.69. Self-certified mitigating circumstances claims must be submitted no later than five working days
after the assessment due date. As there is no requirement to obtain and submit supporting
evidence, and therefore no reason to delay submission of the claim, it is expected that students
wishing to submit a self-certified claim can do so within this timeframe.
11.70. Where a student is taken ill during either a scheduled assessment or an exam, the student may self-certify, and must do so within five working days. Where a claim in respect of such
circumstances is accepted, any work completed, or marks achieved in that assessment, will be
disregarded.
11.71. Where a student is unable to submit a self-certification claim within these deadlines, they may
still be eligible to submit a mitigating circumstance claim with appropriate evidence in
accordance with paragraphs 11.27 to 11.33 above, provided that it is submitted in accordance
with the requirements of these regulations.
Claims submitted in exception to the Fit to Sit Policy
11.72. As stated at paragraph 11.14 above, all students who take an assessment are, in doing so, declaring themselves fit to be assessed, and any mitigating circumstances claim submitted in
respect of an assessment that has been taken will normally be rejected. This is known as the
‘Fit to Sit’ policy.
11.73. Exceptionally, a mitigating circumstances claim may be accepted in respect of an assessment
component that the student has taken, but only where the student can demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the University, that due to the nature of the mitigating circumstances the student
was not aware that they were not fit to be assessed when deciding to take that assessment.
Such claims are known as ‘unfit to sit’ mitigating circumstances claims.
11.74. In submitting such a claim, a student must not only provide evidence to demonstrate that the grounds set out in paragraphs 11.24 a) to d) above are met, but also provide evidence to
demonstrate that:
a) the circumstances materially impaired the student’s performance such that if it had not
been for those circumstances the student would have performed significantly better; and
b) the nature of the circumstances meant that the student had not been aware that they were
not fit to take the assessment.
11.75. Due to the need to provide such evidence, such a claim may not be submitted by self-certification.
11.76. Where a student is taken ill during a scheduled assessment or exam, the student will not be
regarded as having taken the assessment, and therefore has not declared themself fit to sit. In such cases the student should submit a self-certified mitigating cir cumstances claim (see
paragraph 11.69 above).
11.77. Pending consideration of such a claim, the assessment will be marked in the normal way, with
no account taken of the mitigating circumstances claim .
11.78. Where an ‘unfit to sit’ claim is accepted as an exception to the Fit to Sit policy, the assessment result will be set aside, and the student will be deferred in that assessment component or
module (see paragraph 11.58 and 11.59 above). The student will then be regarded as taking that assessment at the first attempt (or second, third or fourth attempt if the deferred
assessment was itself already a second, third or fourth attempt).
11.79. Such a claim may be accepted even where the assessment component has been passed by the student.
11.80. Where such a claim is rejected, the mark awarded for the assessment component will stand.
Part 3: Assessment Regulations for Taught Courses
Section 12: Marking, moderation and external scrutiny
Introduction
12.1. Marking is the process of assessing a piece of work, submitted or presented by a student,
against agreed marking criteria and mark/grade descriptors to arrive at the award of a
numerical score or grade for that piece of work.
12.2. Moderation is the process of reviewing the marks awarded to a full set of assessed work to
provide assurance that assessment criteria have been applied appropriately and consistently.
According to the Quality Assurance Agency, “Internal moderation is a process separate from
that of marking... It is separate from the question of how differences in marks between two or more markers are resolved and is not about making changes to an individual student’s
marks” 1.
12.3. External scrutiny is the process of providing external assurance, by way of the external
examiner system, that academic standards are appropriate and comparable with the sector,
and that the assessment process has been conducted fairly, consistently and in accordance
with published policies and regulations.
Head of College management responsibility
12.4. It
is the Head of College’s responsibility to ensure that the arrangements for marking, internal
moderation and external scrutiny of assessment are in place and that these processes are
undertaken in a timely and professional manner and in accordance with the academic and/or any cou rse specific regulations. The procedures described in these regulations apply to all
assessment periods.
12.5. It
is the Head of College’s responsibility to ensure that all summative assessments are securely
stored, retained and disposed of in accordance with the University’s Student Records Retention Schedule.
Anonymity
12.6. The U
niversity requires that in the case of formal examinations student anonymity is observed
and maintained until the completion of the marking process for that assessment. Further guidance can be found within the Assessment and Feedback Policy .
12.7. Where a student breaches their own anonymity (e.g. by writing their name visibly on an
examination script), the student forfeits their right to anonymity and the University is absolved from the requirement to observe and maintain that student’s anonymity.
Marking
12.8. For
each module, it is for the Head of School which owns that module to determine the
appropriat e internal member of staff to act as a marker. A marker need not have taught on that
module.
12.9. The M
odule Leader is responsible for organising the marking of that module, including
determining the allocation of markers to assessment components, questions, or scripts as
1 UK Quality Code for Higher Education, Part B6: Assessment of students and the recognition of prior learning, Indicator 13
appropriate, and arrangements and mechanisms for internal moderation at the assessment
level, moderation at the module level and third marking where required. The Module Leader
shall make a record of these arrangements, which shall be retained and made available to the relevant External Examiner(s).
12.10. All assessments shall be marked by a marker. The marker does not have to mark either all assessments within the module or the work of all candidates (e.g. a marker may mark only a
single examination question and in respect of only a sub-set of the students who answered that
examination question).
12.11. In the case of each assessment, to the lowest level of granularity (e.g. an examination question
or coursework essay), the marker shall evaluate the assessment against the agreed
assessment criteria and mark descriptors and, using their academic judgement, award an
appropriate mark (or grade or other outcome, as specified in the validated marking scheme for
that module).
12.12. Where an assessment needs to be marked by one maker only (see below), the mark awarded by the marker will stand and the marking process is complete.
12.13. Double marking is defined as the complete re-marking of an element of assessment without
reference to the original mark. Normally, double marking should be undertaken by a member
of academic staff who teaches on the module, although another appropriately qualified member
of academic staff may perform this role.
12.14. Double marking may only be applied in cases where the assessment component has a significant impact on the final degree mark, such as for dissertations or projects weighted at 40 or more credits, or where explicitly required by Professional, Statutory or Regulatory Body.
Internal Moderation-Assessment Level
12.15. Moderation at the assessment level is the process of confirming, or otherwise, the
appropriateness of the original mark. Marks are not awarded at this stage of the moderation
process and, due to moderation being only of a sample of assessments (see 12.17 below), marks cannot be changed.
12.16. Moderation at the assessment level is required to be undertaken only where the assessment
component contributes a significant proportion of the overall module mark and is required to be
undertaken only in respect of a sample of the students’ assessments (see 12.17and 12.18
below).
12.17. Moderation at the assessment level is required where the assessment component contributes a significant proportion of the overall module mark as follows:
Credit Size Contribution of Assessment
Component to Overall Module
Mark
10, 15 or 20 credits Greater than or equal to 30%
30 credits or more Greater than or equal to 15%
12.18. Where an assessment component is to be reviewed in accordance with 12.17 above, the
minimum sample size is determined by the number of candidates registered on that module, as
follows:
No. of Students Registered on
Module Minimum Percentage of Students’
Assessments to be moderated
< 100 20% or 10 students’
assessments, whichever is the
greater
100 – 300 15%
> 300 10%
12.19. The sample size and sample must ensure a representative coverage of all of the markers
involved, including the feedback and the mark awarded by the original marker. The sample must include work of students across the full range of marks.
Permanent Assessments
12.20. In the case of written or other assessments of which there is a permanent record, the sample
must include assessments from the full range of marks achieved by the cohort and must include all assessments within two marks below the pass mark.
12.21. Where an assessment is to be reviewed the internal moderator, will review the assessment and the mark awarded by the original marker, and will either confirm or not that the mark awarded
by the original marker to each assessment is appropriate.
12.22. All assessments in the sample that were marked by the same original marker will be reviewed by a single internal moderator.
12.23. Where the internal moderator confirms that the original mark is appropriate, that mark will stand, and the marking process is complete.
12.24. Where the internal moderator cannot confirm that the original mark is appropriate, the procedures as detailed under regulation 12.29 – 12.31 are to be followed.
Ephemeral Assessments
12.25. In the case of ephemeral assessments (i.e. those assessments of which there is no permanent
record, such as presentations, oral exams, critiques, performances etc.), the assessment level moderation shall take the form of an internal moderator sitting in on the assessment, observing
the sample sizes as stated at 12.17 above.
12.26. In the case of ephemeral assessment, regulation 12.18 does not apply.
12.27. Where the internal moderator cannot confirm that the mark awarded by the original marker is
appropriate, the mark is referred for third marking (see below).
12.28. Where the ephemeral assessment is recorded as part of the assessment process, it then becomes a Permanent Assessment and regulations 12.20 – 12.24 above apply.
Resolving internal moderation discrepancies
12.29. Where following the completion of the assessment level moderation process the internal moderator is unable to confirm that the mark awarded by the original marker is appropriate (see
12.22 above) another marker will review the sample of assessments in question, including the feedback and the mark awarded by the original marker, and will either confirm or not that the
mark awarded by the original marker is appropriate.
12.30. Where the marker is able to confirm that the original mark is appropriate, that mark will stand, and the marking process is complete.
12.31. Where the marker is unable to confirm that the original mark is appropriate, all instances of that assessment marked by that original marker will need to be re-marked. In such cases, the
relevant Head of School shall determine the process to be followed in respect of the re-marking
and the arrival at a final mark. The original marker will not normally be involved in the re-marking. The Head of School shall report all such instances to the appropriate external
examiner and to the Progression and Award Board.
Moderation-Module Level
12.32. Following the completion of the marking process, as defined above, the Module Leader shall
review the marks awarded to the full set of assessments across all assessment components
within that module.
12.33. The Module Leader may seek advice and assistance from members of the teaching and assessment team.
12.34. The purpose of this review is to ensure that the marking criteria have been fairly, accurately and consistently applied. The review will therefore look at consistency of marks between and across markers, questions, assessment components, and the module as a whole and will seek
assurance that there are no unexplained outliers.
12.35. Where this review identifies that the marking criteria may not have been fairly, accurately or consistently applied, the Module Leader shall report the matter to the relevant Head of School. The Head of School, in consultation with the Module Leader, shall determine the appropriate
action to take, which may include the remarking of assessments. The Head of shall report all such instances to the relevant external examiner and to the Progression and Award Board.
External scrutiny
12.36. With the exception of programmes that lead to an award at Level 3 or 4, or where the modules in question form part of a course delivered in collaboration with another institution, external scrutiny is not required for modules at Levels 3 and 4. However, in accordance with paragraphs
12.29 and 12.32 above, the Chief External Examiner will be informed, and invited to comment, where issues of third marking or moderation are identified in respect of assessments at all Levels, including Levels 3 and 4).
12.37. In the case of all other modules, following the completion of the moderation process the relevant external examiner shall be invited to provide external scrutiny.
12.38. The arrangements by which external examiners will have access to students’ assessments,
should be determined in consultation between the Module Leader and the external examiner or the agreed point of contact.
12.39. The sample size of assessments to be made available to the external examiner shall normally be between 10% and 25% of the total and shall include work of students across the full range of marks.
12.40. Assessments provided to external examiners should be accompanied by the module descriptor
and full schedule of assessment. The tabulation of all marks for all students in the module must
be provided. External examiners are entitled to review any piece of module assessment within
their remit. In the case of oral examinations, presentations or viva voce examinations, external examiners may observe a sample conducted by internal examiners or alternatively view an
audio or visual recording.
12.41. The role of an external examiner in respect of external scrutiny of marking is:
a) to confirm, or otherwise, that academic standards and the achievements of students are appropriate and comparable with those in other UK higher education institutions of which
the external examiner has experience;
b) to confirm, or otherwise, that the assessment process has been conducted rigorously,
fairly, and in accordance with the University’s policies and regulations;
c) to confirm, or otherwise, that marking has been undertaken consistently and in accordance with agreed marking criteria.
12.42. Where an external examiner believes, on the basis of the sample they have seen, that work has been over-or under-marked, they may recommend to the Module Leader that all marks for
that assessment, or awarded by a specific marker, be adjusted by a given margin. In all such cases, this must be reported to the relevant Progression and Award Board.
12.43. Where an external examiner believes, on the basis of the sample they have seen, that marking
is inconsistent they may recommend to the Module Leader that the work of all students in the
group be re-marked. In all such cases, this must be reported to the relevant Progression and
Award Board.
12.44. External examiners should not be asked to adjudicate on or otherwise resolve differences between marks awarded by different markers or be used as a second or third marker.
Part 4: Assessment Boards for taught courses
Section 13: The determination of results-the role of examiners
Head of College responsibilities
13.1. The H
ead of College should ensure that :
a)teaching
staff are familiar with the current definitive course scheme for the course(s) theyteach, the course handbook, including the course assessment regulations and the
University academic regulations;
b)appropriate External Examiner nominations for Subject Areas and Progression and Award
Boards, hosted by the College, are submitted to the Quality and Standards Office forapproval by the appropriate member of the University Executive Board (UEB);
c)modules are allocated to approved External Examiners;
Note: External Examiners are appointed to specific named Subject Areas but will be given
responsibility for specified modules, or subjects by the Head of College;
d)External Examiners are inducted to Subject Areas, including providing documents givingdetails of the syllabuses, assessment requirements, procedures, practices and academicregulations for modules within the remit of the College;
e)External Examiners are inducted to Progression and Award Boards, including providingdocuments describing the current teaching and assessment scheme and the approvedcourse specific and University assessment regulations;
f)internal and External Examiners are inducted to the role of the External Examiner in theexamination team and scrutiny of the marking of internal examiners;
g)internal and External Examiners are informed of the dates of the assessment period and of
Assessment meetings of all relevant Progression and Award Boards, normally at thebeginning of the academic session and no later than the start of the semester for which theassessments are being completed;
Note:
In the case of University-wide Module Boards the Deputy Registrar (Quality and
Standards) shall be responsible for nominating and inducting the appropriate External Examiner (s). In the case of collaborative course provision the Liaison Tutor, as the Head of
College’s nominee, shall be responsible for the undertakings in 13.1 a) – g) above.
Internal examiners
13.2. All
internal examiners are required to observe the confidentiality of the proceedings of any
Progression and Award Board.
13.3. No individual studying for a module or an award being considered by a Progression and Award
Board may attend a meeting of that Board.
13.4. Where a student is known to a member of staff other than in their professional capacity, that
staff member must declare an interest to the Head of College.
External Examiners
13.5. External Examiners are appointed to credit level 3 and 4 programmes for discrete programmes
only i.e. only for awards made at that level or where the modules in question form part of a course delivered in collaboration with another institution.
Note: Staff should refer to the Quality Assurance and Enhancement Handbook for information
on the External Examiner appointment process.
Generic responsibilities of External Examiners
13.6. All External Examiner (s) must:
a) observe the confidentiality of all Progression and Award Board proceedings and
assessment processes;
b) be able to exercise independent judgement and be free from any influence of previous
association with the course, the staff, or any of the students;
c) be able to compare the performance of students with that of their peers on comparable
courses of higher education elsewhere within UK Higher Education Institutions (HEIs);
d) ensure the assessments are conducted in accordance with the approved course specific
and University assessment regulations;
e) provide an annual written report to the University on the effectiveness of the assessments
and any lessons to be drawn from them in relation to course quality;
f) be consulted about proposed changes to the course specific regulations and significant
module amendments; and
g) report to Academic Council any matters of serious concern arising from the assessments,
which put at risk the academic standard of the award.
Note: External Examiners have the right to raise any matter of serious concern with the Vice-Chancellor, if necessary by means of a separate confidential written report. Where an External
Examiner has a serious concern relating to systematic failings with the academic standards of a
programme(s) and has exhausted all published applicable internal procedures, including the
submission of a confidential report to the Vice-Chancellor, the External Exam iner may invoke
procedures with the Office of Students or inform the relevant Professional, Statutory or
Regulatory Body.
13.7. If an External Examiner is unable to attend the Progression and Award Board the Vice Chancellor, as Chair of Academic Council, may act to ratify all results recommended by the
Progression and Award Board, provided that they are satisfied that the assessment process was undertaken appropriately.
Role of External Examiners in the Subject Area process
13.8. External Examiners must be able to monitor the marking standards of the internal examiners by
comparison with those of other UK Higher Education Institutions (HEIs).
13.9. The role of Subject Area External Examiners is to judge whether students, as a group, have
been rigorously and fairly assessed in relation to the objectives and syllabus of modules and
have reached the required academic standard.
13.10. The subject specialist External Examiner’s primary role is to review the operation of the assessment process and to approve academic standards set by internal examiners . The
External Examiner must not be asked to offer assessment judgements in individual cases or to
act as a third or additional marker.
13.11. The role of Subject Area External Examiners is to judge whether students, as a group, have been fairly assessed in relation to the objectives and syllabus of modules and have reached the
required standard. Such judgements are made in the context of knowledge of standards
applied in comparable courses elsewhere and of levels of student attainment in previous years.
External Examiners also attest that assessment regulations have been fairly applied ensuring
parity of judgement for all students taking a module and comment on the assessment process
and procedures. The subject specialist External Examiner's primary role is that of an arbiter of
the assessment process and of standards set by internal examiners. The External Examiner
must not be asked to offer assessment judgements in individual cases or to act as a third or additional marker.
13.12. Subject Area External Examiners are required to:
a) visit the University or its collaborative partner normally at least twice each academic
session, either to attend Subject Area meetings and/or to view coursework assignments
and meet staff and students;
b) advise on all assessments for work at undergraduate Credit Levels 5 and 6 and
postgraduate Credit Level 7;
Note: External Examiners are appointed to Credit Level 3 and 4 programmes for discrete
programmes only, i.e. only for awards made at that level.
c) approve the form and content of examination question papers; and coursework
assignments contributing at least 30% of any module assessment ;
d) comment on a representative sample of internally marked work to ensure:
i. students are assessed rigorously and fairly in relation to the module syllabus and
regulations;
ii. students have fulfilled the intended learning outcomes of the module and reached
the required academic standard.
e) provide an overview of the consistency and appropriateness of academic standards of
assessment set by the internal examiners;
Note: Where an External Examiner recommends under regulation 12.26 that all marks for that
assessment be adjusted by a given margin, or under 12.27 that marking is inconsistent, this
must be reported at the relevant Progression and Award Board.
f) attend Subject Area meetings with other External Examiners appointed to the Subject Area to discuss the assessment practices, academic standards and moderation;
g) be consulted on any significant proposed changes to course regulations or such minor
changes as directly affect students already taking a module; and
h) submit an annual report that provides clear and informative feedback on:
i. the coherence of the policies and procedures relating to External Examiners ;
ii. their access to and receipt of sufficient evidence and information to enable the role
to be fulfilled;
iii. whether issues raised in the previous report(s) have been, or are being, addressed
to their satisfaction;
iv. the design and structure of assessments and if they measure student achievement rigorously and fairly against the intended learning outcomes of the programme(s),
whilst being conducted in line with the University’s policies and procedures;
v. the procedures for assessments and the effectiveness of internal moderation;
vi. the quality of teaching, learning and assessment methods, including examples of
good practice and innovation related to learning, teaching and assessment that
could be applied more widely across the University;
vii. the comparability of academic standards and the achievements of students on
similar programmes in other UK Higher Education Institutions (HEIs);
viii. the level of marking and the appropriateness of the academic standards set for the named awards in accordance with the Framework for Higher Education Qualifications and applicable subject benchmark statements;
ix. the students’ strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in the assessments, noting possible enhancements to the quality of learning opportunities provided to students;
x. any issues as specifically required by any relevant professional body; and
xi. in addition, where an External Examiner has reached their end of tenure and is due
to submit their final annual report they should also include an overview of their term
of office.
Role of External Examiners in the Module Board process
13.13. External Examiners must be able to monitor the marking standards of the internal examiners by
comparison with those of other UK Higher Education Institutions (HEIs).
13.14. The role of Module Board External Examiners is to judge whether students, as a group, have
been fairly assessed in relation to the objectives and syllabus of modules and have reached the
required standard. Such judgements are made in the context of knowledge of standards applied in comparable courses elsewhere and of levels of student attainment in previous years.
External Examiners also attest that assessment regulations have been fairly applied ensuring
parity of judgement for all students taking a module and comment on the assessment process
and procedures. The subject specialist External Examiner's primary role is that of an arbiter of
the assessment process and of standards set by internal examiners. The External Examiner
must not be asked to offer assessment judgements in individual cases or to act as a third or additional marker.
13.15. This role requires Module Board External Examiners to:
a) visit the University or its collaborative partner normally at least twice each academic
session, either to attend Module Board meetings and/or to view coursework assignments
and meet staff and students;
b) advise on all assessments for work at undergraduate Credit Levels 5 and 6 and postgraduate Credit Level 7;
Note: External Examiners are appointed to Credit Level 3 and 4 programmes for discrete
programmes only, i.e. only for awards made at that level.
c) approve the form and content of examination question papers; and coursework
assignments contributing at least 30% of any module assessment ;
d) comment on a representative sample of internally marked work to ensure:
i. students are assessed rigorously and fairly in relation to the module syllabus and regulations;
ii. students have fulfilled the intended learning outcomes of the module and reached
the required academic standard.
e) provide an overview of the consistency and appropriateness of academic standards of
assessment set by the internal examiners;
Note: Where an External Examiner recommends under regulation 12.26 that all marks for
that assessment be adjusted by a given margin, or under 12.27 that marking is
inconsistent, this must be reported at the relevant Progression and Award Board.
f) attend Module Board meetings and formally endorse marks and decisions on reassessment in the case of failed modules;
g) agree the formal record of Module Board meetings;
h) be consulted on any significant proposed changes to course regulations or such minor
changes as directly affect students already taking a module; and
i) submit an annual report that provides clear and informative feedback on:
i. the coherence of the policies and procedures relating to External Examiners ;
ii. their access to and receipt of sufficient evidence and information to enable the role
to be fulfilled;
iii. whether issues raised in the previous report(s) have been, or are being, addressed
to their satisfaction;
iv. the design and structure of assessments and if they measure student achievement
rigorously and fairly against the intended learning outcomes of the programme(s),
whilst being conducted in line with the University’s policies and procedures;
v. the procedures for assessments and the effectiveness of internal moderation;
vi. the quality of teaching, learning and assessment methods, including examples of
good practice and innovation related to learning, teaching and assessment that could be applied more widely across the University;
vii. the comparability of academic standards and the achievements of students on similar programmes in other UK Higher Education Institutions (HEIs);
viii. the level of marking and the appropriateness of the academic standards set for the
named awards in accordance with the Framework for Higher Education
Qualifications and applicable subject benchmark statements;
ix. the students’ strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in the assessments, noting
possible enhancements to the quality of learning opportunities provided to
students;
x. any issues as specifically required by any relevant professional body; and
xi. in addition, where an External Examiner has reached their end of tenure and is
due to submit their final annual report they should also include an overview of their
term of office.
Role of External Examiners in Progression and Award Boards
13.16. The role of Progression and Award Board or Chief External Examiners is to ensure the fair and equitable application of the University's regulations on credit accumulation, and the course-specific regulations for each award, in decisions on the award of qualifications to students. This includes decisions on the progression, the classification of awards (where relevant) and
decisions on exclusions. The Chief External Examiner must not be asked to offer assessment
judgements in individual cases or to act as a third or additional marker. The Chief External Examiners take part in all work of Progression and Award Boards including the award of
intermediate awards, which may include discrete Foundation Certificates. Chief Ext ernal
Examiners are also asked to provide comments to the University on the assessment process
and procedures.
Note: Fair treatment includes equitable application of the University’s regulations on credit accumulation, as well as the course specific regulations for each award, in decisions on the
award of qualifications to students. This includes decisions on the classification of awards
(where relevant) and decisions on exclusions.
13.17. At least one approved Chief External Examiner must be in attendance at each Progression and
Award Board considering final awards, except where the Board considers referred or deferred assessment and the approved Chief External Examiner(s) has agreed that this may be
conducted by correspondence.
13.18. Chief External Examiners must provide informative comments and recommendations to the
University on the assessment process and procedures.
13.19. This role requires Chief External Examiners to:
a) Attend and endorse decisions made by Progression and Award Boards for progression,
final awards and exclusions except for intermediate awards, where, with prior agreement,
they may be involved by correspondence;
b) contribute to the discussion of cases concerning compliance with course assessment
requirements and qualifications;
c) agree the formal record of the Progression and Award Board meetings;
d) be consulted on any significant proposed changes to course specific assessment
regulations and approve any such changes which directly affect students already taking a course; and
e) submit an annual report in accordance with the standard format approved by Academic
Council commenting on:
i. the overall performance of students on each course;
ii. the distribution of results across classifications;
iii. the implications of results for the course design, or the work of Subject Areas;
iv. Progression and Award Board procedures;
v. assessment regulations;
vi. issues arising from assessments of course schemes as a whole;
vii. the conduct of Progression and Award boards.
13.20. On rare occasions, a Chief External Examiner may not be prepared to endorse the outcome of
the examination process or the decision of a Progression and Award Board. If such occasions
do occur, then every attempt should be made to resolve the disagreement through discussion and negotiation. If such attempts are not successful then the Chair of the Progression and Award Board should contact the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards), who will review the
circumstances and attempt to broker an agreement between the Chair and the Chief External
Examiner. Failing agreement, the matter will be referred to the Vice-Chancellor for
investigation.
Note: In accordance with section 14, decisions relating to assessment outcomes are made by
the majority view of the Progression and Award Board. Therefore, should a Chief External
Examiner not be prepared to endorse the decisions of the Progression and Award Board this
will not nullify the decisions made by the Progression and Award Board.
Part 4: Assessment Boards for taught courses
Section 14: The operation of Assessment Boards
Principles
14.1. The U
niversity operates a single tier assessment board structure, whereby each board confirms
both student module marks and results, and progression between levels of courses and/or the
conferment of University awards. Such single tier boards are known as Progression and Award
Boards.
14.2. There
shall be a Progression and Award Board established for each academic School and at
each of Undergraduate and Postgraduate level. Each Progression and Award Board will be
responsible for all modules and courses owned by that School. The Head of College is responsible for ensuring that Progression and Award Boards are appropriately established and
for determining the appropriate Progression and Award Board arrangements for their College.
14.3. Exceptionally, where a module is not owned by a single academic School module results and
outcomes for that module will not be considered by a Progression and Award Board and will be considered instead by a Module Board. A Module Board is responsible for c onfirming student
module marks and results only. It shall be for the Deputy Vice Chancellor ( Education) to
determine those modules to be considered by a Module Board (which would typically include University Wide Elective modules), and to determine the number and composition of such
Module Boards. Module Boards will normally be scheduled to take place before Progression and Awards Boards, and the decision of the Module Boards will be reported to the relevant Progr ession and Award Board by way of the student profile.
14.4. Progression and Award Boards are formally established on behalf of Academic Council and are
accountable to Council for the fulfilment of their terms of reference through the relevant Head of
College.
14.5. Progression and Award Boards must consider student results in accordance with the University
and course assessment regulations and make recommendations to Academic Council , or to
any external validating body, in relation to any student who, in the judgement of the Board, has
fulfilled the objectives of the course and achieved the standard required for the award.
14.6. For
all collaborative courses:
a)specific arrangements for the operation of Progression and Award Boards will be set out inthe Memorandum of Collaboration and/or Administrative Annex;
b)where the University acts as the sole awarding body, and retains sole responsibility for thestandard of the award, the Progression and Award Board will be chaired by a member ofacademic staff from the College in which the course is located, as nominated by the Headof College.
Note:
The nominated chair should only be the Liaison Tutor where that tutor has had noinvolvement with the moderation or marking of the work being assessed.
c)where
awards are shared between the University and another awarding body, or the
University does not have sole responsibility for both the standard of the award and allassessment which may contribute towards it, Progression and Award Board arrangementswill be those most appropriate to the course in question. Where a Progression and AwardBoard is chaired by a member of staff from a collaborative partner, the Head of College willprovide formal written confirmation on the following to the Campus Registry Manager
d) the identity of the Chair of the Progression and Award Board;
e) that the University is represented at all meetings of the Board;
f) the external examiner arrangements for the Board.
14.7. The Head of College is responsible for ensuring:
a) that procedures are followed with regard to the consideration and approval of the form and
content of all summative assessment that count towards the assessment of the course and
its modules
b) the completion of the marking and moderation process
c) that marks achieved by students for each summative assessment are finalised and available by the published deadline
d) the involvement of the approved External Examiners in the moderation process.
Appointment of external examiners
14.8. The nomination of external examiners to a Progression and Award Board is the responsibility of
the relevant Head of College, in consultation with the Head of School and/or Course Leader (s).
All external examiner appointments must be approved in accordance with the University
procedures for the appointment of external examiners (see Section13).
Note: For full details on the appointment of an external examiner please refer to the Quality
Assurance and Enhancement Handbook.
Membership of Progression and Award Boards
14.9. The membership of a Progression and Award Board is as follows:
a) the Chair, who shall be the Head of School, or nominee;
b) the Course Leader(s) for all courses being considered by the Board (including Liaison
Tutors where appropriate);
c) the School Director of Teaching and Learning, or equivalent;
d) the approved external examiner(s) currently appointed to that Board;
14.10. The quorum for a Progression and Award Board shall be 75% of the members and must normally include the Chair and at least one external examiner.
Module leaders are not members of the Progression and Award Board but will be invited to
attend meetings.
14.11. The College Teaching Committee is responsible for determining annually, at the start of each academic year, the membership of each Progression and Award Board within their College in accordance with these regulations.
Terms of Reference for Progression and Award Boards
14.12. A Progression and Award Board has oversight of all results at all levels and modes of study in respect of those modules which are identified for consideration by that Board, and of all
progression and award decisions in respect of those courses identified for consideration by that
Board: A Progression and Award Board is responsible for:
a) ratifying the assessment component marks and final module marks, results and outcomes in accordance with the academic regulations, including the award of Referral, Deferral and Retake opportunities;
b) confirming decisions on condoned credit, where applicable, in accordance with the academic regulations;
c) confirming progression and award decisions based on a student’s module results, in accordance with the academic regulations and any course specific regulations, for all students registered for the named awards for which the Board is responsible;
d) confirming where a student’s progress is such that the student should be excluded from
the course on academic grounds in accordance with the academic regulations;
e) confirming degree classification or the award of merit or distinction, where relevant, in
accordance with the academic regulations;
f) ensuring academic standards are appropriately maintained, including ensuring that
marking and moderation processes have been followed correctly, that the spread of marks is appropriate, and that student performance outcomes on each module are considered in
line with outliers at both the high and low end. ;
g) reviewing matters arising from the Subject Area meetings and the consideration of the
module performance statistics presented at that meeting.
h) ensuring that the integrity of the academic standard of the award is observed;
i) in discussion with the Chief External Examiner, reviewing the distribution of results across
classifications and the comparability of awards with past cohorts in the courses under
scrutiny, and similar programmes in other UK HEIs;
j) making recommendations to the College Teaching Committee on any matters relating to
the assessment of the course;
k) any other matters assigned to it in the relevant course assessment regulations or referred
to it by or on behalf of Academic Council .
Membership of Module Boards
14.13. The membership of a Module Board is as follows:
a) the Chair, who shall be a Head of College nominated by the Deputy Vice Chancellor
(Education );
b) an approved external examiner(s) (for modules at Credit Levels 5, 6 and 7);
c) the Module Leaders of all the modules being considered by the Board;
14.14. The quorum for a Module Board shall be 75% of the members and must normally include at
least one external examiner.
Terms of Reference for Module Boards
14.15. A Module Board has oversight of all assessments at all levels and modes of study in respect of
those modules which are identified for consideration by that Board. The Module Board is responsible for:
a) ratifying the assessment component and final module marks for each student in accordance with the academic regulations;
b) ensuring academic standards are appropriately maintained, including ensuring that marking and moderation processes have been followed correctly, that the spread of marks is appropriate, and that student performance outcomes on each module are considered in
line with outliers at both the high and low end.
Requirements for All Assessment Boards
14.16. Progression and Award Boards will be serviced by the Academic Registrar’s Department. In
addition to the secretary to the Board, representatives from the Academic Registrar’s
Department may attend to provide regulatory advice to the Board and to ensure that due process is followed.
14.17. No individual studying for a module or for an award to be considered by a Progression and
Award Board may attend a meeting of that Board.
14.18. Where a student is known to a member of staff other than in their professional capacity, that
staff member must declare an interest to the Chair of the Board.
14.19. Any member of the University Executive Board may attend a Progression and Award Board as
an observer.
14.20. If a Progression and Award Board is inquorate, the Vice Chancellor, as Chair of Academic
Council, may act to ratify all results recommended by the inquorate Board, provided that they
are satisfied that the assessment process was undertaken appropriately.
Dates of meetings
14.21. Undergraduate Progression and Award Boards will normally meet at least twice per academic
year, once at Assessment Period 2 and once at Assessment Period 3 to consider
Referral /Deferral results in accordance with the academic regulations and published academic
calendar.
14.22. Postgraduate Progression and Award Boards will normally meet three times in each academic session, at the end of Assessment Period 2, at the end of Assessment Period 3 to consider
Referral/Deferral results and after Assessment Period 6 following the completion of the project
or dissertation. In Colleges where there is a January intake of students Progression and Award
Boards will also meet following Assessment Period 1.
14.23. Progression and Award Boards will be scheduled by the relevant Campus Registry, and dates
will be published at least six months in advance.
Delegation of authority (Chair’s Action)
14.24. A Progression and Award Board may delegate its responsibilities in relation to
recommendations on students’ results to the Chair.
14.25. The endorsement of the external examiner (s) for a Board should be sought before the Chair
assumes any of the responsibilities of the Board.
14.26. The Chair of the Progression and Award Board should exercise delegated authority only in
exceptional cases, in correcting errors in the records presented to a Progression and Award
Board, in considering academic appeals, in approving changes to students’ marks as the result
of an academic appeal or other similar investigation, and in cases where it is not practical to
reconvene a Board in order to consider a very small number of students’ results.
14.27. All decisions taken by Chair’s Action must be formally recorded and reported to the next
meeting of the relevant Progression and Award Board.
Confidentiality
14.28. While the formal decisions of Progression and Award Boards will be published under the
provisions of Section 15, the proceedings are confidential.
Note: Reports of Progression and Award Boards and communications relating to the
assessment of individual students shall be circulated under confidential cover. Those privy, in
any capacity, to the deliberations of the Progression and Award Board shall not discuss the
Board’s work with any other person, except where required to do so by the Deputy Registrar
(Quality and Standards) in relation to a formal request for review of a Progression and Award
Board decision.
Part 4: Assessment Boards for taught courses
Section 15: Publication of results
Definition of results
Provisional results
15.1. Provisional results are marks notified to students by written comments and provisional
percentage marks. Provisional results are normally recorded following internal moderation on to
the Student Records System, (SRS) and Blackboard (Virtual Learning Environment). However,
these are subject to scrutiny by an external examiner, prior to consideration at the relevant Progression and Award Board. Provisional results are, therefore, subject to change.
Note: Students are not allowed to challenge the academic judgement of their assessors.
Provisional results may also be subject to a penalty for late coursework submission being
imposed.
Confirmed results
15.2. Confirmed results are those, which have been approved by the relevant Progression and Award Board.
The release of results
15.3. At
the end of each academic year (or after the meeting of the Progression and Award Board
where the Progression and Award Board meets outside the normal academic session), the
confirmed results for each module shall be notified to the student, by means of a computer-generated transcript.
15.4. The release of confirmed results is formally the responsibility of the Campus Registry Manager ,
and no other member of University staff is authorised to release results without the agreement of the Deputy Registrar (Student Administration).
15.5. Confirmed results shall only be released where they have been approved by a properly
constituted Progression and Award Board, involving the external examiner (s) approved on
behalf of Academic Council .
15.6. Wherever possible, results should be published by the final publication date as agreed by
Academic Council each year in accordance with the approved University Calendar .
Note:
Where approval has been given for a Progression and Award Board to be held outside
the published calendar the results will normally be available not more than five working days after the Progression and Award Board meeting, or the date on which results were confirmed
by the external examiner.
15.7. It
is a student’s responsibility to ensure they obtain their own transcript after the official
publication date. If a student has not been able to access, or has not received a copy of their results, it is their responsibility to ensure they contact the Campus Registry as a matter of urgency.
Note: Students are advised to ensure they have checked their results on SRS Web within five
working days of the official publication date.
15.8. Module
results may be made available online before the final publication date for results and
Assessment Board decisions.
15.9. Under no circumstances will results be disclosed by telephone.
15.10. Where a student specifically wishes to receive a copy of their transcript by post, they should
request this from the Campus Registry; such a request does not obviate the student’s
responsibility to obtain their results. The University can accept no responsibility for the arrival or
otherwise of any correspondence in relation to a student's results.
15.11. Where the student records indicate that a student has failed all or part of the assessment , it is
the students’ responsibility to obtain information on the consequences and the possibilities, if
any, of redeeming failure. This information will be included as part of the accompanying notes
or as directed by the relevant Registry.
Note: Confirmed results are normally available via SRS Web.
Procedures for dealing with alleged errors
15.12. Following the publication of provisional and confirmed results on the student record system (SRS), if a student or member of staff identifies a demonstrable error in relation to any module or component mark, they must raise the matter in writing with the r elevant Campus Registry .
Ratification
15.13. In all cases, results are subject to ratification on behalf of Academic Council, and to the determination of any legitimate requests for review of the Progression and Award Board
decision (see Section 16 Academic Appeal ).
Part 4: Assessment boards for taught courses
Section 16: Academic Appeals
Introduction, Scope and Purpose
16.1. A P
rogression and Award Board derives its authority from Academic Council and is the only
body that can make decisions concerning:
•module marks and results for students, including any requirements for reassessment
•the academic progression of students
•the expulsion of students for academic failure
•the conferment of awards
It makes such decisions in accordance with the requirements of the Frameworks for
undergraduate and postgraduate taught courses (Sections 17 and 18 of the academic
regulations).
16.2. The decisions of a Progression and Award Board can only be set aside in exceptional
circumstances (see regulation 16.27). A decision of a Progression and Award Board may only
be modified by that Progression and Award Board, including by the Chair of the Board acting
on behalf of the Board, or by a superior Board.
16.3. An academic appeal is a representation against a decision of a Progression and Award Board
in respect of an assessment outcome for an individual student. The purpose of these regulations is to provide a framework within which a student may seek to challenge that
decision of a Progression and Award Board in respect of that student’s assessment, in order to
protect against potential unfairness resulting from omission or error on the part of the University. The regulations are intended to provide an opportunit y to remedy material
disadvantage to a student.
16.4. No student appealing under these regulations, whether successfully or otherwise, shall be
treated less favourably than would have been the case had an appeal not been made.
16.5. If
a student wishes to present a complaint about the University, its courses or services or the
individuals concerned in their delivery, the Student Complaints Procedure should be used.
Where a student submits an academic appeal against a decision of a Progression and Award
Board in accordance with these regulations which, in the opinion of the Academic Standard s
Manager, requires an investigation which falls outside the remit of the Progression and Award
Board and which constitutes a complaint under the provisions of the Student Complaints
Procedure, then the matter shall be referred for consideration under the Student Complaints
Procedure. The academic appeal shall be held in abeyance until the consideration of the matter under the Student Complaints Procedure has been concluded. The Academic Standards
Manager shall notify the student accordingly, normally within 5 working days of receipt of the
academic appeal. The findings of the Student Complaint investigation will then inform the consideration of the academic appeal.
16.6. The U
niversity’s policies on the assessment of students, the role of external examiners and
other related matters are published separately.
16.7. These
Regulations do not cover complaints or academic appeals against matters which have
already or are currently being considered by the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for
Higher Education (OIA), a court, or a tribunal.
16.8. The University reserves the right to terminate the academic appeals process at any time if it
judges that the appeal is vexatious or frivolous. This decision will be made by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor ( Education) on the advice of the Academic Registrar. Any student submitting
fraudulent documentation in support of their appeal or who submits an appeal that is fraudulent
in any other way will be subject to the provisions of the University’s Student Disciplinary
Regulations or Academic Misconduct Regulations, as appropriate.
16.9. As academic appeals are always related to individual assessment outcomes, it is unusual for students to submit collective appeals. However, the University recognises that there may be exceptional circumstances where the issues raised affect a number of students and therefore
those students may wish to lodge a collective appeal. In these cases, each student is expected
to show how they have personally been affected by the situation. In certain instances, a
nominated individual may be required to act as spokesperson for those students who are
making the collective appeal.
16.10. An academic appeal may only be submitted by the student whose assessment decision is being challenged – a third party may not submit an academic appeal on behalf of a student.
16.11. The University will not consider academic appeals which are made anonymously, nor will it consider requests made by appellants for appeals to be considered anonymously.
16.12. Student expenses for making an appeal will not be reimbursed by the University, regardless of the subsequent outcome.
16.13. The University undertakes to treat all appeals with confidentiality. Disclosure of evidence will be restricted to those parties involved in the review process.
16.14. The University is committed to complying fully with the Data Protection Act 1998 in its handling of personal data.
Definitions
16.15. An ‘Academic Appeal ’ is defined as a request for a review of a decision of a Progression and
Award Board charged with decisions on student progress, assessment and awards. This
includes challenges to the outcomes of the mitigating circumstances process.
16.16. A ‘complaint’ is any expression of dissatisfaction with the standard of service provided by the
University or its agents, or with the actions or lack of actions by the University, its agents, or
members of staff. The relevant procedure for dealing with complaints of this nature is the Student Complaints Procedure, which includes a fuller definition of a complaint.
16.17. A ‘Student’ is any person pursuing a taught undergraduate or postgraduate course, module or
programme of study offered by the University which leads to an award of or the award of credit
by, the University. This includes students enrolled with a collaborative partner on a course
validated by the University, unless otherwise stated in the partnership agreement and agreed at
the point of validation. Separate Academic Appeals procedures exist for students on Research
Degrees .
16.18. A ‘Progression and Award Board’ is the formal body constituted in accordance with the
provisions of Section 14 of the academic regulations for the purpose of, inter alia, making decisions concerning student assessment, progression and awards.
16.19. ‘Mitigating Circumstances ’ are defined for the purposes of assessment as circumstances of a
serious nature, usually sudden or unforeseen, that occurred during or immediately before a
specific item or period of assessment, and which had an adverse impact on the student’s
performanc e. Section 11 of the academic regulations gives a fuller description of Mitigating
Circumstances.
16.20. ‘Academic Judgement ’ is a judgement that is made about a matter where only the opinion of
an academic expert will suffice, for example a judgement about assessment, a degree
classification, fitness to practise, research methodology or course content/outcomes will
normally be academic judgement. However, the fairness of procedures, the facts of the case,
misrepresentation, the manner of communication, bias, an opinion expressed outside the area of competence, the way evidence is considered and maladministration in relation to these
matters are all issues where academic judgement is not involved.
16.21. ‘Material irregularity ’ means the University has not acted in accordance with its own
regulations or procedures, or has not acted with procedural fairness, and that this failing on the
part of the University is so significant that it has had a material impact on the outcome. I.e. had it not been for this failing the outcome would probably have been substantively different.
16.22. References to the ‘ Academic Standards Manager ’ include their nominees who are working
under their authority, or other appropriate officer nominated by the Academic Registrar.
16.23. The ‘ assessment process’ includes all aspects of assessment, including the application of
assessment regulations, compliance with assessment requirements, calculation of marks and outcomes, and the conduct of the Progression and Award Board.
Accompaniment and Representation
16.24. A student should seek advice from UWSU (“University of Westminster Students’ Union”) before making an academic appeal. Advice on the procedure may also be sought from the Academic Standards Manager and the student’s Campus Registry.
16.25. Students invited to attend an appeal hearing may be accompanied by an officer or staff member of UWSU, a currently enrolled student of the University, or a member of University
staff, who may make representations on behalf of the student.
16.26. Legal representation will not be permitted at appeal hearings.
Grounds for an appeal
16.27. A decision of a Progression and Award Board may only be modified where one or both of the following criteria (the grounds) have been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the body
considering the appeal:
a) that there has been a material irregularity in the assessment process;
b) that there has been a material irregularity in the conduct of the Mitigating Circumstances process
Students wishing to appeal using ground b) (noted above) are advised to read Section 11 of the Academic Regulations, Mitigating Circumstances, prior to submitting an appeal.
16.28. Academic appeals which seek to challenge the academic judgement of the Progression and Award Board will not be considered, and therefore matters of academic judgement will not be
grounds for an academic appeal.
16.29. Mitigating circumstances will not be considered as grounds for an academic appeal. Any student wishing to have mitigating circumstances considered in respect of an assessment
following the decision of a Progression and Award Board on that assessment should refer to
the University’s Mitigating Circumstances Regulations (Section 11 of the Academic
Regulations).
16.30. Students should seek advice from UWSU, before submitting an appeal. Further details are
available from the Students Union.
Procedure
STAGE 1: Initial Consideration
16.31. All academic appeals must be made within 15 working days of the publication of the
decision which is being appealed using the academic appeal form accessible via e: Vision
and submitted to the Academic Standards Manager. All evidence must be provided at the time
the appeal is submitted.
16.32. An academic appeal submitted after this deadline may, exceptionally, be admitted at the discretion of the Academic Standards Manager where the student can provide good reason, to
the satisfaction of the Academic Standards manager, for its late submission.
16.33. The appeal request will be acknowledged normally within 5 working days of its receipt.
16.34. The Academic Standards Manager shall review the appeal request and make one of the following determinations:
a) That the appeal provides evidence of permissible grounds, as stated above, in which case the appeal shall move to Stage 2.
b) That the appeal does not provide evidence of permissible grounds, as stated above, in
which case the Academic Standards Manager will advise the student in writing of this
finding, within 20 working days of receipt of the appeal, and that the appeal will not be further considered.
16.35. The Academic Standards Manager will write to the student to notify them of this determination normally within 20 working days of receipt of the appeal.
16.36. Where the student is dissatisfied with a determination that the appeal does not provide evidence of permissible grounds, they may, within 5 working days of the notification letter,
request the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) to review this decisio n.
16.37. On receipt of such a request, the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) will review this
decision and, normally within 15 working days of receipt of the request, will advise the student in writing of their determination.
16.38. Where the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) confirms the Academic Standards Manager’s determination that the appeal does not provide evidence of permissible grounds, or
where the student does not request a review of the Academic Standards Manager’s decision
within the five working days, this will constitute the completion of the University’s procedures in
this matter.
16.39. Where the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) determines that the appeal does provide evidence of permissible grounds, the appeal shall move to Stage 2.
STAGE 2: Consideration by the Progression and Award Board
16.40. Where it is determined, either by the Academic Standards Manager or, following a request for a review by the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) that the appeal shall progress to Stage
2, the Academic Standards Manager will investigate all of the relevant issues detailed in the
appeal. The Academic Standards Manager will normally complete this investigation within 20 working days of receipt of the appeal, or within 20 working days of the conclusion of the review
of the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards).
16.41. Upon the completion of these investigations, the Academic Standards Manager will:
16.41.1 in the case of an appeal based on grounds of material irregularity in the assessment process (paragraph 16.27 a) above), report their findings in writing to the Chair of the
Progression and Award Board whose decision is being appealed. The Chair of the
Progression and Award Board shall consider these findings on behalf of the Progression
and Award Board, and where appropriate should liaise with and seek views and opinions
from relevant academic and other staff. The Chair shall, on behalf of the Progression and
Award Board, reach one of the following determinations:
a) that a material irregularity in the assessment process did occur and that, had it not been for that irregularity, the original decision of the Progression and Award Board would have been different. In such cases the Chair shall uphold the appeal and modify the Board’s
original decision as appropriate; or
b) that a material irregularity in the assessment process did occur, but even had the irregularity not occurred the original decision of the Board would not have been different. In
such cases the Chair shall reject the appeal and the Board’s original decision will stand; or
c) that a material irregularity in the assessment process did not occur. In such cases the Chair shall reject the appeal and the Board’s original decision will stand.
16.41.2 in the case of an appeal based on grounds of material irregularity in the conduct of the
Mitigating Circumstances process (paragraph 16.27 b) above), report their findings in
writing to the Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances Board, with a copy to the Chair of the Progression and Award Board whose decision is being appealed. The Chair shall consider
these findings on behalf of the Mitigating Circumstances Board, and where appropriate
should liaise with and seek views and opinions from relevant academic and other staff. The Chair shall, on behalf of the Mitigating Circumstances Board, reach one of the
following determinations:
a) that a material irregularity in the conduct of the Mitigating Circumstances process did occur and that, had it not been for that irregularity, the original decision of the Mitigating
Circumstances Board would have been different; or
b) that a material irregularity in the conduct of the Mitigating Circumstances process did
occur, but even had the irregularity not occurred the original decision of the Board would
not have been different; or
c) that a material irregularity in the conduct of the Mitigating Circumstances process did not
occur.
16.41.3 The Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances Board shall notify their findings and
determination to the Chair of the Progression and Award Board. The Chair of the Progression and Award Board shall consider these findings on behalf of the Assessment
Board. The Chair shall, on behalf of the Progression and Award Board, reach one of the
following determinations:
a) that, in light of the findings of the Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances Board, the original
decision of the Progression and Award Board would have been different. In such cases the Chair shall uphold the appeal and modify the Board’s original decision as appropriate; or
b) that, in light of the findings of the Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances Board, the original decision of the Progression and Award Board would not have been different. In such cases the Chair shall reject the appeal and the Board’s original decision will stand.
16.42. Written confirmation of the Stage 2 decision, along with the full reasons for that decision, should be provided by the Academic Standards Manager to the student within 50 University
working days of receipt of the appeal (or within 90 working days in those cases where the
Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) reviewed the initial decision of the Academic Standards Manager in accordance with paragraph 16.40 above). Where the outcome of the
appeal may impact on a student’s progression, and any delay in considering the appeal may
adversely impact the student’s academic career, the University will do all that it can to expedite
the consideration of the appeal, however this cannot be guaranteed as it is important that a
robust process is followed, and full consideration is given to the appeal .
16.43. Where the Chair of the Progression and Award Board modifies the Board’s original decision, this shall be reported to the next meeting of that Progression and Award Board.
STAGE 3: Consideration of a Request for an Appeal Hearing
16.44. Should the student be dissatisfied with the Stage 2 decision the student has the right to request
the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) to refer the matter for consideration by an Appeal
Panel. Such a request must be received by the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards)
within 10 working days of the date of notification of the Stage 2 decision. Where such a
request is not received by the deadline, the University’s internal procedures are completed. Such a request will not be considered if Stage 2 of the process has not completed.
16.45. Such a request must be submitted on the Stage 3 application form accessible via e: Vision. The completed form must stipulate clearly and unambiguously the grounds upon which the request is based and include a comprehensive statement explaining why the grounds have been met.
All evidence submitted must relate only to the grounds for the request. The Deputy Registrar
(Quality and Standards) will acknowledge receipt of the request in writing normally within 5
working days.
16.46. The only possible grounds are as follows:
a) that there was a material irregularity in the consideration of the academic appeal at Stage
2;
b) that new evidence has come to light to support the appeal which could not reasonably have been made available at the time the appeal was submitted.
16.47. The Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) will consider the request against these grounds, and only these grounds. The Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) may request the student or any other party to provide further information or clarification.
16.48. Where, in the opinion of the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards), there is evidence that one or both of the grounds might have been met the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards)
shall accept the request and refer the matter for consideration by an Appeal Panel (see
paragraph 16.52).
16.49. Where, in the opinion of the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards), there is no such evidence the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) shall reject the request. In this case the
Stage decision shall stand, there shall be no further opportunities for appeal, and the
University’s internal procedures are completed.
16.50. The Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) shall notify the appellant in writing of the
decision, and the reasons for it, normally within 20 working days of receipt of the request. Where it is not possible for the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) to meet this deadline,
the student will be informed and will be advised of the reasons for the delay.
16.51. Pending the outcome of Stage 3 the original decision will stand.
Consideration at an Appeal Hearing
16.52. The Appeal Hearing will be conducted by a panel of the Academic Board and its composition
will be as follows:
• Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Education) or nominee (Chair)
• 2 academic staff members of Academic Council
• President of the Students’ Union, or sabbatical officer nominee.
The Secretary to the Panel shall be a nominee of the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards).
16.53. No member of the Panel shall have had any previous involvement in the case, nor shall have
been involved in the teaching or assessment of the student .
16.54. The quorum for an Appeal Panel is three, including the Chair.
16.55. The Appeal Hearing shall normally be held within 30 working days of the written notification of
the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards) decision to accept the request to refer the matter
to an Appeal Panel. Where it is not possible for the Hearing to be held within this timeframe the
appellant will be informed and will be advised of the reasons for the delay. Wherever possible
the date set will be at the student’s convenience.
16.56. The student’s expenses for attending an appeal hearing will not normally be reimbursed by the University.
Procedures for conducting an appeal hearing
16.57. At least 10 University working days in advance of the hearing the University will write to the
student and ask that within five University working days the student:
• Confirm their attendance at the hearing
• Confirm the name and relationship of the person who will be accompanying them to the hearing
• Confirm the name and relationship of any witnesses that the student wishes to call during
the hearing
• Provide any additional evidence that they wish the appeal panel to consider that has not
previously been submitted at stage one or stage two of the appeals process
• Provide an indication of the outcome they are seeking within the scope of the regulations.
16.58. The members of the appeal panel, the student, the Chair of the Progression and Award Board whose Stage 2 decision is being appealed and, where appropriate, the Chair of the Mitigating
Circumstances Board will receive the same documentation prior to the hearing including:
• the student's submission and supporting evidence
• the Stage 2 outcome letter, which will include the reasons for the decision
• the relevant assessment regulations
• other documents which may be considered relevant.
16.59. Submission of additional evidence will not be permitted except orally during the hearing.
Tabled evidence will not be permitted.
16.60. The panel will ask questions of:
• the student
• any witnesses that the student wishes to call
• the Chair of the Progression and Award Board whose decision is being appealed and, where appropriate, the Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances Board
• any witnesses that the Chair of the Progression and Award Board wishes to call
16.61. Students will be given the opportunity to attend hearings virtually. Students can request to attend in person. The student is expected to attend the hearing. The University reserves the
right, however, to proceed with any hearing in the absence of a student, subject to the student having been properly notified of the date and time of the hearing.
16.62. Students have the right to call any witnesses that they choose who will be able to provide information pertinent to the issues under consideration at the appeal hearing. The Chair of the Progression and Award Board whose decision is being appealed also has the right to call any
witnesses that they choose who will be able to provide information pertinent to the issues under consideration at the appeal hearing. Witnesses will not be able to ask questions on behalf of
the student and are only permitted to be present whilst giving evidence.
16.63. Appeal Hearings shall be held in private.
16.64. The Appeal Panel shall consider the evidence presented and shall limit its consideration to the
grounds stated at 16.46 above. It is not the purpose of the Appeal Hearing to re-hear the
original academic appeal. The Appeals Panel will decide, on the balance of probabilities, either:
a) that one or both of the grounds for appeal are met, in which case the appeal is upheld, and
the matter is referred back to the Chair of the Progression and Award Board or, where
appropriate, the Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances Board to reconsider the original
academic appeal. The Panel may also make recommendations to the Chair of the
Progression and Award Board and/or the Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances Board; or
b) that neither ground for appeal is met, in which case the appeal is rejected, and the Stage 2
decision shall stand. There shall be no further opportunities for appeal, and the
University’s internal procedures are completed.
16.65. In the event that the Panel does not reach a consensus, the Chair will have the casting vote. No vote will be counted for absent panel members.
16.66. The Appeals Panel may also recommend to Academic Council changes to assessment
procedures or highlight examples of good practice as a result of the appeals process.
16.67. The student, the Chair of the Progression and Award Board and, where appropriate, the Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances Board will be informed, in writing, of the outcome of the appeal hearing within 5 working days. The outcome letter will include the reasons for the Panel’s
decision.
16.68. The decision of the Appeal Panel is final and cannot be the subject of any further appeal. This
is considered the end of the University’s internal procedures.
16.69. Pending the outcome of any appeal at Stage 4 the original decision will stand.
Reconsideration by the Progression and Award Board
16.70. Where the Appeal Panel upholds the appeal and refers the matter back for reconsideration by
the Chair of the Progression and Award Board or the Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances
Board, this reconsideration must be completed at the earliest opportunity and normally within
20 working days of notification of the Panel’s decision.
16.71. This reconsideration will be undertaken in accordance with the provisions of regulation 16.41 above.
16.72. The student must be informed by the Academic Standards Manager of the outcome within a further 5 working days.
16.73. There shall be no further right of appeal following this reconsideration, which shall constitute the completion of the University’s internal procedures.
Completion of Procedures
16.74. At the completion of the University’s internal processes relating to appeals, the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards), or nominee, will issue a letter informing a student that the
University’s procedures are complete. If a student remains dissatisfied with the outcome it may
be possible to make a complaint to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for Higher
Education (OIA). Information and eligibility rules are available at http://www.oiahe.org.uk
Annulment of the decision of a Progression and Award Board
16.75. Notwithstanding the fact that the student has no further right of appeal, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Education) may, in exceptional circumstances, recommend to Academic Council
that the decision of a Progression and Award Board be annulled if:
a) the Chair of the Progression and Award Board and/or the Chair of the Mitigating Circumstances Board has failed to reconsider the Stage 1 decision despite referral back
following a successful appeal; or
b) the Chair of the Progression and Award Board and/or the Chair of the Mitigating
Circumstances Board has ignored a reasonable recommendation from the Appeal Panel in their reconsideration; or
c) following the completion of all other internal procedures the decision remains perverse or unreasonable to the detriment of a student or students.
16.76. If it is felt that the irregularity may have affected other students, Academic Council may annul part or all of the assessment process.
16.77. Where Academic Council annuls the decision of a Progression and Award Board or part or all of an assessment process it shall put in place arrangements as it sees fit in order to remedy the
situation. This may include substituting the decision of the Progression and Award Board with a
modified decision.
Part 5: Modular frameworks for taught courses
Section 17: Framework for undergraduate taught courses
1. Scope
1.1 These regulations are applicable to all taught courses leading to an undergraduate award of the
University at level 3, 4, 5, 6 or 71. Any courses seeking exemption from these regulations, orfrom specific provisions of these regulations, must do so at the point of validation or review, andsuch exemption will normally only be granted in order to meet the requirements of externalprofes sional bodies.
1.2 These regulations will also be applicable to all taught undergraduate awards validated by the
University but delivered under a collaborative arrangement with a partner institution, unlessotherwise agreed at the point of validation or in accordance with normal procedures for makingany change.
1.3 These regulations are applicable from the start of the 2016/17 academic session in respect ofstudents studying at levels 3, 4 and 5, from the start of the 2017/18 academic session in respectof students studying at level 6, and from the start of the 2018/19 academic session in respect ofstudents studying at level 7. Transitional arrangements for students transferring into theseregulations, for example following a period of interruption or repeat study, are stated separately.
2. General
2.1 The
University uses the Office for Students (OfS) conditions of registration as a reference pointfor setting, delivering and maintaining the academic standards of its validated awards. Theregulatory framework starts with the premise that qualifications should be awarded on the basisof achievement of positively defined learning outcomes (demonstrated through assessmentagainst a standard) rather than duration of study. This applies to all undergraduate awardsvalidated by the University of Westminster, including those delivered by Partner Institutions.
Appendix C set out the common descriptors of the four main degree outcome classifications forbachelor’s degrees with honours.
2.2 All undergraduate credit bearing awards are expected to align with the UK reference points foracademic standards as set out in the Office for Students ( OfS) Condition B4: Assessment andawards . This will be considered by University Validation Panels, who act with delegated authorityfrom Academic Council when considering proposals for new course validation or for the periodicreview of existing awards.
2.3 Where an award has been validated by the University to fulfil the requirements of a Professional,
Statutory or Regulatory Body (PSRB), the University still maintains the responsibility for theacademic standards of that award, even where the PSRB influences the design, approval,
monitoring or review of that award.
2.4 All awards, and consequently the courses that lead to them, will be assigned, at the point ofvalidation, to a Level of the Sector-recognised standards as published by the Office for Students
(OfS) in accordance with the national system of levels and awards stated in Table 1.
2.5 The
Awards of the University that may be conferred under this scheme are as stated in Table 1
Below:
1 Integrated Masters awards, although at Level 7, are regarded for many purposes as undergraduate awards and are governed by
the provisions of these regulations. Throughout these regulations references to Level 7 therefore apply only to Level 7 of Integrated
Masters programmes.
Table 1: The national system of levels and awards as it applies to the University
Level Award Type UoW Award
Level 7
(Postgraduate) Integrated Masters degrees MEng
MLaw
MSci
Level 6
(Undergraduate) Bachelors degrees BA (Hons)
BASc (Hons)
BSc (Hons)
BEng (Hons)
BMus (Hons)
LLB (Hons)
BA*
BSc*
BEng*
BMus*
Level 6
(Undergraduate) Graduate diplomas
Graduate certificate Grad Dip
Grad Cert
Level 5
(Undergraduate) Foundation degrees
Diplomas of Higher Education Diploma of Special Study FdA**
FdSc
DipHE*
DIPSS
Level 4
(Undergraduate) Certificates of Higher
Education
University Certificates & Diplomas CertHE*
CertEd (Diploma in Teaching in the
Lifelong Learning Sector (DTLLS))**
Level 3 Foundation certificate Foundation Certificate*
* These awards are exit awards only. They are not target awards, and do not exist as courses in their own right.
** These awards are offered as validated awards with partner institutions
2.6 To be eligible for an award a student must achieve a specified volume of Credit, at specified
Levels, as detailed in Table 9 below. Students achieve Credit by undertaking and satisfactorily completing Modules. Modules are the building blocks of Courses and Awards.
2.7 Each course is described in detail in the Programme Specification, which must be approved at the point of validation. The Programme Specification describes, amongst other things, the
structure of the course and the modules which the course comprises, including details of any
optional modules. It also describes the pathways that might be available, and the award title(s) to which the course can lead.
2.8 Where a course can lead to multiple award titles, the Programme Specification shall state the combination or balance of modules to be passed in order to meet the requirements for each
award title. In the case of Degree awards, awards may be single honours (or non-honours), joint
honours (or non-honours), or major/minor honours (or non-honours).
3. Framework Structure
3.1 Modules & Credits
3.1.1 Each module is described in detail in the Module Descriptor, which must be approved at the
point of validation2. The Module Descriptor describes, inter alia , the structure of the module, the
amount and type of teaching and learning activity, the learning outcomes for that module, the assessment criteria for that module, the ways in which the module will be assessed, and the
relative weightings of the assessme nt activities.
2 Procedures for approving additional modules or amending existing modules will be contained in the Quality Assurance and
Enhancement Handbook.
3.1.2 With the exception of Polylang modules (see paragraph 3.1.7 below), each module will be assigned a Credit Level and a Credit Volume. Together these constitute the Credit Value of that module.
3.1.3 The Credit Level will reflect the depth of learning involved and the intellectual demand of the module, and will be assigned with reference to the qualification descriptors prescribed by the
Office for Students (OfS) in its Sector-recognised standards and stated below in Table 2:
Table 2: Generic Credit Level Descriptors (source OfS Sector-recognised standards )
Level Learning accredited at this level will reflect the ability to:
Level 7 A systematic understanding of knowledge, and a critical awareness of current
problems and/or new insights, much of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of their academic discipline, field of study or area of professional practice. A
comprehensive understanding of techniques applicable to their own research or
advanced scholarship. Originality in the application of knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how established techniques of research and enquiry
are used to create and interpret knowledge in the discipline. Conceptual
understanding that enables the student to evaluate critically current resear ch and
advanced scholarship in the discipline and to evaluate methodologies and
develop critiques of them and, where appropriate, to propose new hypotheses.
Deal with complex issues both systematically and creatively, make sound judgements in the absence of complete data, and communicate their conclusions
clearly to specialist and non-specialist audiences. Demonstrate self-direction and
originality in tackling and solving problems, and act autonomously in planning
and implementing tasks at a professional or equivalent level. Continue to
advance their knowledge and understanding, and to develop new skills to a high
level.
Level 6 A systematic understanding of key aspects of their field of study, including
acquisition of coherent and detailed knowledge, at least some of which is at, or
informed by, the forefront of defined aspects of a discipline. An ability to deploy
accurately established techniques of analysis and enquiry within a discipline.
Conceptual understanding that enables the student to devise and sustain
arguments, and/or to solve problems, using ideas and techniques, some of which are at the forefront of a discipline and to describe and comment upon
particular aspects of current research, or equivalent advanced scholarship, in the discipline. An appreciation of the uncertainty, ambiguity and limits of knowledge. The ability to manage their own learning, and to make use of scholarly reviews
and primary sources (for example, refereed research articles and/or original materials appropriate to the discipline). Apply the methods and techniques that they have learned to review, consolidate, extend and apply their knowledge and
understanding, and to initiate and carry out projects. critically evaluate
arguments, assumptions, abstract concepts and data (that may be incomplete),
to make judgements, and to frame appropriate questions to achieve a solution –
or identify a range of sol utions – to a problem. Communicate information, ideas,
problems and solutions to both specialist and non-specialist audiences.
Level 5 Knowledge and critical understanding of the well-established principles of their
area(s) of study, and of the way in which those principles have developed. Ability
to apply underlying concepts and principles outside the context in which they
were first stu died, including, where appropriate, the application of those
principles in an employment context. Knowledge of the main methods of enquiry
in the subject(s) relevant to the named award, and ability to evaluate critically the
appropriateness of different approaches to solving problems in the field of study.
An understanding of the limits of their knowledge, and how this influences
analyses and interpretations based on that knowledge. Use a range of established techniques to initiate and undertake critical analysis of information,
and to propose solutions to problems arising from that analysis. Effectively
communicate information, arguments and analysis in a variety of forms to specialist and non-specialist audiences and deploy key techniques of the
discipline effectively. Undertake further training, develop existing skills and
acquire new competences that will enable them to assume significant
responsibility within organisations.
Level 4 Knowledge of the underlying concepts and principles associated with their
area(s) of study, and an ability to evaluate and interpret these within the context
of that area of study. An ability to present, evaluate and interpret qualitative and quantitative data, in order to develop lines of argument and make sound
judgements in accordance with basic theories and concepts of their subject(s) of study. Evaluate the appropriateness of different approaches to solving problems related to their area(s) of study and/or work. Communicate the results of their
study/work accurately and reliably, and with structured and coherent arguments.
Undertake further training and develop new skills within a structured and
managed environment.
Additionally, some courses will include modules at Level 3, which will align with the Level 3 level descriptor as defined in the National Qualifications Framework under the stewardship of
OFQUAL.
3.1.4 The Credit Volume will reflect the amount of learning expected for the typical student to achieve
the learning outcomes of that module. The Credit Volume is based on an estimate using the idea
of notional hours of learning, which includes not only formal classes and contact time, but also
preparation time, independent study, reading, revision, assessment, the undertaking of course
work, online learning, field trips, and all other self-directed learning. One credit represents 10
notional hours of learning . Credit Volume therefore defines the module size.
3.1.5 The standard module size shall be 20 credits. However, modules of 40, 60, 80, 100 or 120
credits may be permitted, subject to approval at validation. In the case of Polylang, 10 credit modules shall be permitted for incoming exchange/study abroad students only.
3.1.6 Credit Volumes used by the University are consistent with those used throughout the UK Higher Education sector. Note that across much of the rest of the European Union, and other
collaborating European countries, the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation Scheme
(ECTS) is used. The United States HE sector operates a different credit system again. 20 University of Westminster credits equate to 10 ECTS credits and 5 US credits.
3.1.7 In the case of Polylang modules, the Credit Level will not be assigned to the module. Instead, where credit is awarded the Credit Level achieved by the student shall be determined by the
level of study of the student, such that a Level 4 student will achieve credit at Level 4, a Level 5
student will achieve credit at Level 5, and a Level 6 student will achieve credit at Level 6, regardless of the Polylang module that is taken.
3.1.8 A Level 4 or Level 5 student may take a Polylang Grade 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 module. A Level 6 student may take a Polylang Grade 3, 4 or 5 module, and may take a Polylang Grade 2 module only if
they have previously taken a Polylang Grade 1 module at either Level 4 or Level 5. A Level 6
student may not take a Polylang Grade 1 module.
This is summarised in table 3 below:
Table 3: Credit Level achieved by students for Polylang Modules
Level of
Student Grade 1 Grade 2 Grade 3 Grade 4 Grade 5
Level 4 L4 L4 L4 L4 L4
Level 5 L5 L5 L5 L5 L5
Level 6 n/a L6* L6 L6 L6
* A Level 6 student may only take a Polylang Grade 2 level if they have previously taken a Polylang Grade 1 module at
either Level 4 or Level 5.
3.2 Course Structure
3.2.1 Each course will have one or more Levels.
3.2.2 Where a course has two or more Levels, the end of each Level, in the case of full-time courses,
represents a progression point, and the student must satisfy the progression requirements (see
section 5 below) in order to progress to the next Level.
3.2.3 Within each Level students must take modules of prescribed credit volumes, as defined by Table 4 below:
Table 4: Course structures – Levels & Prescribed Credit Values-target awards only
Course No. of Years
(standard
FT mode)No. of
Levels Level Volume of Credit to be
taken per Level
MEng
MLaw
MSci 4 4 4 120 credits
5 120 credits
6 120 credits
7 120 credits
5 4 4 120 credits
5 minimum120 creditsmaximum 240 credits*
6 minimum 120 creditsmaximum 240 credits*
7 120 credits
BA (Hons)
BASc (Hons)
BSc (Hons)
BEng (Hons)
BMus (Hons)
LLB (Hons)
LLB (Hons) with Foundation 3 3 4 120 credits
5 120 credits
6 120 credits
4 3 4 120 credits
5 minimum 120 creditsmaximum 240 credits*
6 minimum 120 creditsmaximum 240 credits*
BA (Hons) with Foundation
BSc (Hons) with Foundation
Year
BEng (Hons) with Foundation Year
BMus (Hons) with Foundation 4 4 3 120 credits
4 120 credits
5 120 credits
6 120 credits
5 4 3 120 credits
4 120 credits
5 minimum 120 creditsmaximum 240 credits*
6 minimum 120 creditsmaximum 240 credits*
Grad Dip 2 1 6 120 credits
Grad Dip in Law 1 1 6 160 credits
Grad Cert 1 1 6 60 credits
DIPSS (Diploma of Special
Study)No specified
time limit1 5 40 credits
FdA
FdSc2 or 3 2 4 120 credits
5 120 credits
CertEd (Diploma in Teaching in
the Lifelong Learning Sector
(DTTLS))1 1 4 120 credits
Foundation certificate 1 1 3 120 credits
* Credits over and above 120 applies only to students undertaking a four year course which includes the award of credits
for a placement or study abroad year, as defined by the Programme Specification for that course. Students on such a course will take 120 credits at the University, and will then take between 20 and 120 additional credits during the study
abroad or placement year. Such additional credits are taken at one Level only, and the total credits taken over the course
will therefore be between 360 and 480 (480 – 600 for the MLaw and MEng). Note that such additional credits taken as part of a placement or study abroad year do not contribute for the purposes of progression requirements (see paragraph
5.1.2 below) and do not contribute to any award calculation (see paragraph 7.2.2 below).
3.2.4 Students may not take more than the stated credit volume at each level except where seeking to
recover failed credit (see paragraph 4.7 below).
3.2.5 Modules can be designated as either core, option or elective according to their importance in enabling students to achieve the learning outcomes for the course as a whole and, where
applicable, meet professional body requirements. Individual modules do not have an intrinsic
status as core, option or elective, but are designated as such in relation to a particular course. It
is therefore possible for a single module to be core in relation to one (or more) course(s), an
option in relation to another (or other) course(s), and an elective in relation to another (or other)
course(s).
3.2.6 Core modules are those which serve a fundamental role within the curriculum, and for which
achievement of the credits for that module is essential for the achievement of the named award. Core modules must therefore be taken, and passed, in order to achieve the named award. They
are associated with, and validated as part of, a specific course (or courses), and are listed as
core modules in the programme specification.
3.2.7 Option modules are those which are in the same subject area as the course of study and are
offered to students in order to provide an element of choice in the curriculum and from which students are able to select. They are associated with, and validated as part of, a specific course
(or courses), and are listed as option modules in the programme specification.
3.2.8 Elective modules are those which provide students with an opportunity to broaden their
curriculum, and which might be in a different subject area from the course of study and from which students are able to select. They are not associated with or validated as part of a specific
course and are not listed in programme specifications.
3.2.9 The Programme Specification for each course shall list, by Level, all modules which are available
to students on that course, including both core modules and, where applicable, option modules.
3.2.10 One Academic English module will be offered as an elective module at each of Levels 4, 5 and
6, and may be taken only by those students with an identified need. The Level 6 Academic
English module is normally available only to direct entrants to Level 6.
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Module Registration
a) Students are responsible for compiling their programme of study and ensuring that it complies fully with the framework regulations and with any course specific regulations.
b) Students must register their elective module choices by deadlines to be determined annually and published by the Academic Registrar’s Department. Students should seek advice from their Campus Registry.
c) In the event that a student fails to register module choices, the University reserves the right to assign modules on the student’s behalf.
d) Students seeking to change a module registration must do so in accordance with procedures and deadlines determined annually by the Academic Registrar’s Department. Students should seek advice from their Campus Registry.
e) A student will not normally be permitted to change a module selection once delivery of that module has started.
f) Where the procedure for a change of module registration is not followed, or a request is not
accepted, the student will remain registered on the module, and will be subject to the
assessment requirements of that module.
g) Requests to change a module registration submitted after the published deadline will only
be considered where:
i. the original module cannot be accommodated within the validated course structure; or
ii. a part-time student has a verified conflict between a selected module and work
obligations; or
iii. the University acknowledges that the published module information is misleading.
3.3 Mode of Study
3.3.1 The Programme Specification, as agreed at the point of validation or review, will state whether a
course is available in Full-Time (FT) mode, Part-Time (PT) mode, or both. Where a course is
validated in both FT and PT modes, students must state their intended mode of study at the
point of application to the course.
3.3.2 The normal requirement for each full-time year of undergraduate study is not less than 120
credits. Where a student is studying full-time for one semester only they will be regarded as a
Full-Time Short student. Any other student taking fewer than 120 credits in an academic year will
be regarded as a Part-Time student.
3.3.3 A student wishing to change mode of study may normally only do so before the start of an
academic year.
3.3.4 With the exception of a module retriever (see paragraph 5.1.5 below), a student may only
undertake a course in the mode for which that course has been validated.
3.4 Enrolment
3.4.1 Students are required to enrol on a named course of study and must re-enrol annually in
accordance with procedures laid down by the Academic Registrar’s Department. An eligible
student who fails to complete their enrolment by the published deadline will be deemed to have
withdrawn from their course and will normally have their enrolment terminated.
3.4.2 The maximum periods of enrolment for a course, including any periods of interruption or
suspension, are as stated in Table 5 below:
Table 5: Maximum periods of enrolment3 - target awards only
Course
Standard (Minimum)
Period of Enrolment Full-Time
(Notwithstanding RPEL &
Credit Transfer)
Maximum
Period of
Enrolment (Full-Time
Course) Maximum
Period of Enrolment (Part-Time
Course)
MEng
MLaw
MSci 4 years
(5 years if course includes placement/study
abroad year 6 years 9 years
BA (Hons)
BASc (Hons)
BSc (Hons)
BEng (Hons)
BMus (Hons)
3 years
(4 years if course includes placement /
study abroad year) 6 years 8 years
BA (Hons) with Foundation
BEng (Hons) with
Foundation
BSc (Hons) with
Foundation
BMus (Hons) with
Foundation
4 years
(5 years if course includes placement / study abroad year) 7 years 9 years
LLB (Hons)
LLB (Hons) with
Foundation 3 years
(4 years if course includes placement /
study abroad year) 6 years 6 years
Grad Dip 2 years 2 years 4 years
Grad Dip in Law 1 year 3 years 4 years
Grad Cert 1 year 2 years 3 years
FdA
FdSc 2 years 5 years 6 years
Diploma of Special Study
(DIP SS) 1 year 1 year N/A
Certificate in Education
(Diploma in Teaching in
Lifelong Learning Sector
(DTTLS) 1 year 1 year N/A
Foundation Certificate 1 year 2 years 4 years
3.4.3 Where a student changes mode of study during their course, or transfers into the University in accordance with RPEL or Credit Transfer regulations, the maximum period of enrolment shall be
determined by the Academic Registrar, or nominee, on a pro rata basis.
3 These are the overall time limits for courses with the substantive mode of attendance indicated above. They include any periods
for the interruption of studies or the retrieval of failed modules. The time limit for any programme of study not listed above shall be
determined by the relevant University Validation Panel.
3.4.4 The purpose of maximum periods of enrolment is to ensure the currency of knowledge, the competencies of degree holders and the quality of degrees for the awards we make. An
extension to the maximum period of enrolment may only be granted in exceptional circumstances and normally for one academic year at the discretion of the Academic Registrar or nominee. An extension should be requested as soon as it is apparent that one would be needed
or within one month of the publication of results.
3.4.5 Students who exhaust the relevant maximum period of enrolment without achieving the final
award will, where an extension has not been granted, have their enrolment terminated. Such
students may be eligible for an exit award (see paragraph 7.10 below).
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Enrolment
a) Students must enrol annually in accordance with procedures determined and notified by the
Academic Registrar’s Department.
b) A student who fails to complete enrolment within two weeks of the prescribed deadline,
without good cause and without informing the University, will be deemed to have withdrawn
from the University and will normally have their enrolment terminated.
c) Students should ensure that they are aware of the maximum period of enrolment for their
desired award, as stated above, and should ensure that they do not exceed this maximum
period.
3.5 Course Transfers
3.5.1 A student wishing to transfer from one course to another within the University must do so in
accordance with the published procedure and:
- Must normally, in the case of a student in their first year of study, do so within the first two weeks of the academic year or, in the case of a continuing student, do so at the end of the academic
year;
- must gain the approval of the Course Leader or nominee of each of the current and proposed
course;
3.5.2 A student transferring to another institution shall be regarded as a withdrawal (see paragraph 3.7
below)
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Course Transfers
a) Students wishing to transfer must follow the published procedures, and
b) Students should be aware that there may be course fee and funding implications for them
following a transfer. Students should contact the Student Advice Service, or the Student
Loans Company / Student Finance England as appropriate, for further information. For students on a Tier 4 visa a transfer may also have implications for your visa. Where
relevant, your Campus Registry will notify Student Finance England and the Home Office
about any transfer.
3.6 Interruptions
3.6.1 An interruption is an extended period of authorised absence from the course.
3.6.2 A period of interruption may be:
i. taken by a student at that student’s discretion; or
ii. required by the University on grounds of the student’s health and/or well-being.
3.6.3 Where the University wishes to require a student to interrupt on grounds relating to the student’s health and/or well-being, the procedure as described in the University’s Fitness to Study Policy
shall be observed.
3.6.4 The University may only require a student to interrupt where the University is satisfied that a
period of interruption is in the best academic interests of the student. Under no circumstances
shall such action be taken as a punitive measure.
3.6.5 Students who seek or are required to interrupt their studies on health grounds will be required to
provide evidence, to the satisfaction of the Course Leader or in accordance with the Fitness to Study Policy, as appropriate, that they are fit to resume their studies before they re-join the
course.
3.6.6 An interruption is not to be confused with, or used as a substitute for, deferral of an assessment
component or a deferral of a whole module due to mitigating circumstances (see paragraphs
4.2.2 and 4.2.9).
3.6.7 An interruption will not normally be permitted for a period of less than one semester.
3.6.8 Where a student commences a period of interruption once a module has started but before
completing all the assessment requirements for that module, no credit will be awarded and the student, upon their resumption of studies, will normally be required to r e-join at the start of the
uncompleted module( s). Where a student commences a period of interruption once a module
has started but interrupts their studies after the assessment deadlines have passed, the module will be presented to the Progression and Award Board for consideration.
3.6.9 The maximum period of enrolment (see paragraph 3.4.2 above) includes any periods of interruption.
3.6.10 During a period of interruption a student is not normally entitled to access any of the University’s services or systems, including IT, library, workshop or social facilities, beyond such access that
is permitted to members of the public.
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Interruptions
a) Students wishing to interrupt their studies must contact their Campus Registry and complete
the appropriate documentation.
b) Students wishing to return to their studies from a period of interruption in accordance with
paragraph 3.6.2.ii must seek permission from their Course Leader and will be required to
demonstrate that the personal reasons that necessitated the interruption are no longer
relevant.
c) Students interrupting their studies should be mindful of the maximum permitted period of
enrolment for their course and should be aware that they risk having their enrolment
terminated if they exceed the maximum permitted period.
d) Students should be aware that there may be course fee and funding implications for them
following a period of interruption. Students should contact the Student Advice Service, or the
Student Loans Company / Student Finance England as appropriate, for further information.
For students on a Tier 4 visa an interruption may also have implications for your visa. Where relevant, your Campus Registry will notify Student Finance England and the Home Office
about any interruption. Students are advised to seek advice from the Student and Academic
Services Department.
3.7 Withdrawals
3.7.1 Any student who is fully enrolled and absent from their studies without authorisation or good
reason for a period of at least two weeks (10 consecutive working course days or more), including non-attendance of timetabled on-site classes, may be deemed to have withdrawn from
their course and, at the discretion of the Deputy Registrar (Student Administration), or nominee may, provided that notice and an opportunity for the student to make representations has been given, have their enrolment terminated.
3.7.2 A student whose enrolment is so terminated may only be re-instated upon appeal to and at the
discretion of the relevant Head of College, or nominee. There shall be no further right of appeal.
3.7.3 A student who wishes to withdraw from their studies should notify the University in accordance
with procedures determined annually by the Academic Registrar’s Department.
3.7.4 Where a student withdraws from their studies before or without completing all of the assessment
components for a module, the student will be withdrawn from that module, the module will not be
considered by the Progression and Award Board, and no credit will be awarded for that module.
3.7.5 Where a student withdraws from their studies after completing all of the assessment components for a module, the module will be considered by the Progression and Award Board and credit for
that module may be awarded.
3.7.6 Where a student withdraws from their studies, an exit award may be awarded (see paragraph
7.10 below)
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Engagement & Withdrawal
a) Students are expected to engage fully with their studies. Such engagement includes regular
attendance.
b) Students who are unable to attend due to illness, or other good cause, should notify their Campus Registry at the earliest opportunity.
c) Students who are absent from their course for 10 consecutive working days without
authorisation or without notifying the Campus Registry risk being deemed to have withdrawn for their studies and consequently having their enrolment terminated.
d) Students who wish to withdraw should notify the University in accordance with published
procedure and should consult their Campus Registry in the first instance.
e) Students who are withdrawn by the University or who choose to withdraw should make
themselves aware of any financial implications, including liability for the payment of tuition
fees and other costs. Further details can be found in the University’s Financi al Regulations,
or through seeking advice from the Student and Academic Services department.
4. Assessment
4.1 Assessment Structure
4.1.1 Each module shall comprise one or more summative assessment4 components. These
assessment components will be clearly stated and detailed in the module descriptor and may only be varied in accordance with the procedures for module modification. Where a module has more than one assessment component, the module descriptor shall state the relative weighting
of each component.
4.1.2 With the exception of ‘grade only’ modules (see paragraph 4.2.12 below), each assessment
component will be awarded a mark in the range 0 to 100. All marks awarded for module components will be integers. The module mark and result will be determined by aggregating the
marks awarded to the assessment components (see paragraph 4.2 below).
4.1.3 An assessment component may be defined in the module descriptor as being a qualifying
assessment component, with a qualifying mark. A qualifying assessment component is a
component in which the qualifying mark must be reached in order to pass the module.
4.2 Marking
Assessment Component Level
4.2.1 Each assessment component will be assessed against the assessment criteria as published in
the module descriptor for that module and (with the exception of ‘grade only’ modules) awarded
a mark between 0 and 100.
The result of each component will be determined by the mark awarded according to the following table:
Table 6:
Assessment component mark scheme for modules at Level 3, 4, 5 and 6
Mark Range Result
40-100 Pass
0 – 39 Fail
4 Summative assessment is assessment whose mark contributes to the module mark and thus to the award. It contrasts with formati ve
assessment, whose primary purpose is to inform students and staff of the students’ progress and to allow students to reflect on their work. Formative assessment does not contribute to either the module mark or the award, and thus it is not governed by the provisions of these regulations.
0 Defer*
* see paragraph 4.2.2 below
Assessment component mark scheme for modules at Level 7
Mark Range Result
50-100 Pass
0 – 49 Fail
0 Defer*
* see paragraph 4.2.2 below
4.2.2 Where the student has been permitted, as a result of mitigating circumstances, to present an
assessment component at a later date, a mark of 0 is awarded, with a result of ‘Defer’. In such cases the student will be deferred in that assessment component (see paragraph 4.2.9 below).
4.2.3 All students who submit or present themselves for assessment are, in doing so, declaring themselves fit to be assessed. This is known as the ‘fit to sit’ policy. A student may only be
deferred in respect of an assessment component that they have undertaken, or in respect of a
module for which they have undertaken one or more assessment components,
where the student
can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the University, that due to the nature of the mitigating
circumstances the student was not aware that they were not fit to be assessed when deciding to
submit or present for assessment.
4.2.4 Under no circumstances may individual marks be adjusted, at either assessment component, module, or award classification level, on the basis of mitigating circumstances. Where mitigating circumstances are accepted in accordance with the relevant University policies and regulations
concerning mitigating circumstances and academic appeals, this will result only in the
assessment component in respect of which the mitigating circumstances were submitted being set aside and a mark of 0 awarded. The student will be deferred in that assessment component
and will have a right to be assessed as if for the first time (where the deferral was at the first attempt) at the next available opportunity as defined in paragraph 4.10 below.
4.2.5 The University’s Mitigating Circumstances Regulations and Academic Appeal Regulations will
reflect these principles and will detail the procedures that will be applied.
Module Level
4.2.6 The module pass mark for modules at Levels 3, 4, 5 and 6 is 40. The module pass mark for
modules at Level 7 is 50.
4.2.7 The overall module mark achieved by each student shall be calculated by aggregating, in accordance with their relative weightings, the student’s assessment components marks (the
‘weighted average’). Except where a student fails a qualifying assessment component, a module may be passed even where one or more assessment components have been failed, provided
that the module pass mark is achieved.
4.2.8 However, where a student fails to achieve the qualifying mark in a qualifying assessment component, the module is failed and the overall module mark is capped and recorded at 39 in
the case of modules at Levels 3, 4, 5 and 6 (i.e. where the weighted averag e is greater than 39
the student will be awarded a mark of 39 for the module), or 49 in the case of modules at Level 7
(i.e. where the weighted average is greater than 49 the student will be awarded a mark of 49 for
the module).
4.2.9 Where a student is deferred in one or more assessment components, but has not failed any assessment components, the student will be deferred in the module pending completion of the
deferred assessment component(s) (see paragraph 4.10 below). This applies even where the
overall module pass mark has been achieved.
4.2.10 Where a student is deferred in one or more assessment components but has also failed one or more assessment components (or failed to reach the qualifying mark in a qualifying assessment component) and has failed to achieve the overall module pass mark (including by virtue of failing
to achieve the qualifying mark in a qualifying assessment-see paragraph 4.2.8 above), the
student will fail the module.
4.2.11 Where a student is deferred in one or more assessment components but has also failed one or
more assessment components but has achieved the overall module pass mark, the student will
be deferred in the module pending completion and assessment of the deferred assessment
component. In such cases the student will not be re-assessed in the failed assessment
component(s).
4.2.12 Where a mitigating circumstance claim in respect of a deferral of a module is accepted, the
student will be deferred in the module, and will be given an opportunity to attempt all assessment tasks associated with that module on the next occasion that that module is delivered, normally
during the following academic year.
4.2.13 ‘Grade only’ modules may be permitted where there is -a requirement for modules to be
assessed on a pass/fail basis. These will be clearly identified in the validated programme
specification. Where a module is grade only, no numerical mark is awarded, at either component
or module level, and students can only pass or fail. Such modules will therefore not count
towards the calculation of any award classification.
4.2.14 The result of each module will be determined by the mark awarded according to the following table:
Table 7:
Module mark scheme for modules at Level 3 and 4
Mark Range Result
40 – 100 Pass
30 – 39 Fail or Condoned Pass*
0 – 29 Fail
0 - 100 Defer**
Module mark scheme for modules at Level 5 and 6
Mark Range Result
40 – 100 Pass
0 – 39 Fail
0 - 100 Defer**
Module mark scheme for modules at Level 7
Mark Range Result
50 – 100 Pass
0 – 49 Fail
0 - 100 Defer**
* see paragraph 4.3 below ** see paragraph 4.2.6 above
4.2.15 All marks, results and indicative grades, both at assessment component level and module level,
are provisional until considered and ratified by the appropriate Progression and Award Board.
4.2.16 Where a student passes a module, the student will be awarded the volume of credit assigned to
that module. The award of partial credit for a module is not permitted.
4.2.17 A module that has been passed, and for which credit has been awarded, may not be repeated in
order to improve a mark or gain additional credit.
4.3 Condonement
4.3.1 Condonement is a mechanism by which a module can be passed, and credit can be awarded
even where the module pass mark or a qualifying mark, and thus the module learning outcomes,
have not been achieved.
4.3.2 Condonement is only available to students’ undertaking modules at Levels 3 and 4. It is not
available at any other level. Additionally, condonement may not be available on certain courses accredited by external professional bodies. Any such course-specifi c exceptions will normally be
stated and agreed at the point of validation or review, or otherwise agreed by Academic Council.
4.3.3 Where a student fails to achieve the overall module pass mark, but the following criteria are met,
the Progression and Award Board will, subject to regulation 4.3.4 below and to any course-specific exceptions, award condoned credit:
a) the module is at Level 3 or 4
b) the student has achieved an overall module mark of at least 30.
4.3.4 The maximum volume of condoned credit that may be awarded to a student at each of Levels 3
and 4 is 40 credits.
4.3.5 Where, under the criteria stated in paragraph 4.3.3 above, a student would otherwise be eligible
for condoned credit in more than 40 credits, condoned credit will be awarded in the highest performing 40 credits, and the remaining modules will be awarded a fail. Where there are two or
more modules with the same mark, the Progression and Award Board shall determine which shall be condoned and which failed.
4.3.6 Where, under the criteria stated in paragraph 4.3.3 and 4.3.5 above, there are two or more
modules eligible for condoned credit, but the highest performing module is a 20- credit module
and the next highest performing module is a 40 credit module, the condoned credit will be
awarded in the 40 credit module.
4.3.7 Where condoned credit is awarded, although the overall module mark will remain at less than 40,
the full module credit will be awarded, and the student will be regarded as having passed the module. It shall be recorded on the student’s record as a ‘condoned pass’.
4.3.8 A student may not be re-assessed in a condoned module.
4.4 Rounding of Module Marks
4.4.1 Module marks will not be rounded. The absolute module mark, to the maximum number of
decimal places calculated and recorded by the student record system, will be used in the calculation of the award classification. For the purposes of transcripts and other records of
student achievement, the published module mark will display the whole number and not decimal
places.
4.5 Timing of Assessment & Progression and Award Boards
4.5.1 Coursework (i.e. assessment other than formal examinations) shall be completed by the
published deadlines.
4.5.2 All formal examinations shall normally be held during the University’s designated examination
period(s).
4.5.3 Where an incoming exchange / study abroad student is not required or expected, under the
terms of the exchange agreement, to be available during the relevant designated examination period, alternative assessment arrangements will normally be made to facilitate the student’s
assessment prior to the student’s return to their home institution.
4.5.4 An Assessment Period is a period which culminates with Progression and Award Boards (PABs)
and the publication of results and begins either at the start of the associated examination period
(where the assessment period has an exam period) or otherwise following the final permissible
dissertation or coursework submission deadline. There are three Assessment Periods within the
standard undergraduate academic year
5 Undergraduate courses with approved non-standard structures or calendars may have alternative or
additional assessment periods.
4.5.5 The Main Progression and Award Board shall follow Assessment Period 2 and shall normally be
held in May and June.
4.5.6 Following the notification to students of the results from Assessment P eriod 2 there shall be a
Referral/Deferral examination period, normally held in July (Assessment Period 3) which will
consider Referral and Deferral results.
4.5.7 Students must ensure that they are available during Assessment Period 3 in case they are
required to undertake one or more Referrals/Deferrals.
4.6 Failure
4.6.1 A student who fails a module may, subject to regulations concerning maximum number of
attempts, maximum number of credits, maximum periods of enrolment, and credit thresholds (see paragraphs 4.6.2, 4.7, 3.4.2, and 5.1.6 respectively), be permitted a further attempt at that
module.
4.6.2 No student may be permitted more than four attempts at any module, of which only one may be
a Retake. Each Referral and Retake (see paragraphs 4.8 and 4.9 below) counts as an attempt,
and the module attempt number is incremented accordingly. A student who fails a module at the
fourth attempt will have exhausted the maximum number of attempts. Note that where the failed
module is Referred and contains one or more deferred assessment components (see 4.2.10
above), the module attempt number will be incremented however the attempt number of those deferred assessment components will not be incremented.
4.6.3 Notwithstanding regulation 4.6.2 above, Professional, Statutory or Regulatory bodies may impose a maximum number of attempts in respect of courses which they accredit. Where that is
the case, and where the PSRB’s maximum is lower than the University’s max imum, the PSRB’s
requirement shall take precedence over regulation 4.6.2.
4.6.4 Where a student is permitted a further attempt, the student is deemed to be re-assessed in that
module.
4.6.5 Reassessment will take the form of either a Referral or a Retake (see paragraphs 4.8 and 4.9 below).
4.6.6 In lieu of a Retake, a student may, subject to regulations concerning maximum number of credits, maximum periods of enrolment, and credit thresholds (see 4.7, 3.4.2, and 5.1.6
respectively), and provided that the failed module is not a core module or pre-requisite for a core
module at a subsequent level, choose to undertake an alternative module (or modules) of the
same credit value. In such cases, the alternative module will be regarded as a first attempt and,
consequently, the mark will not be cappe d.
4.7 Maximum Number of Credits That May be Taken at Each level
4.7.1 The standard number of credits that are to be taken by a student at each level is defined in Table
4 above (and, in the case of credits taken as part of a study abroad or placement year, in the
Programme Specification for that course). A student may only take more than the stated number of credits at that level when attempting to retrieve failure.
4.7.2 Where a student Retakes a module (see below) the student is required to re-register for that
module, and, with the exception of study abroad or placement modules (see paragraph 4.9.9 below), the credit volume of that module will contribute to the number of credits taken.
4.7.3 Similarly, where a student chooses to take an alternative module rather than retaking a failed
module, the credit volume of that module will contribute to the number of credits taken.
4.7.4 The maximum number of additional credits (i.e. credits over and above the standard number of
credits defined in table 4) is 60.
Therefore, a student is allowed, following failure, to Retake modules, or to take alternative
modules, to a maximum value of 60 credits at each level (for the maximum number of credits that a full-time student may take in an academic year see paragraph 5.1.4 below).
4.7.5 Where a student exhausts the maximum number of credits that may be taken at that level the student will have their enrolment terminated by the Progression and Award Board (see
paragraph 6 below).
4.8 Reassessment: Referral
4.8.1 A Referral gives the student an opportunity to retrieve the failed assessment component(s) of a
failed module without attendance.
4.8.2 A Referral will be offered where both of the following conditions are met:
a) a further attempt is permitted by these regulations; and
b) where the module failure being considered is at first attempt or at Retake (i.e. a Referral
cannot be offered immediately following failure at Referral)
Note that a Referral will not be offered where a module has been condoned (see paragraph 4.3
above), as a condoned module is regarded as having been passed and credit is awarded (see paragraphs 4.2.16 and 4.3.8 above).
4.8.3 At Referral, the student will be required to be reassessed in the failed assessment component(s), or any alternative form of assessment at the discretion of the Progression and Award Board,
provided that it is equivalent, appropriate to the module’s learning outcomes and consistent with
the module’s validated assessment strategy.
4.8.4 Where a student is referred in an assessment component at Assessment Period 2 it will be
undertaken during Assessment Period 3. Where the Referral is offered at Assessment Period 3 it
will be undertaken at the next assessment opportunity during the following academic year, and a new module registration is not required.
4.8.5 Where the Referral is the second attempt at the module, the mark awarded to any referred
assessment component will be capped at the pass mark (40 in the case of modules at Levels 3, 4, 5 and 6, 50 in the case of modules at level 7). Note that where such a Referral also includes
one or more deferred assessment components (see 4.2.10 and 4.6.2 above), but those deferred assessment components are still at the first attempt, the mark awarded to those deferred assessment components will not be capped. Where the Referral is the fourth attempt at the
module, the overall module mark will be capped at the pass mark (40 in the case of modules at
Levels 3, 4, 5 and 6, 50 in the case of modules at level 7).
4.8.6 The marks achieved in any of that module’s assessment components passed at the preceding
Main Board will stand and will be carried forward.
4.8.7 At Referral, the overall module mark will be calculated by:
a) using the highest mark achieved by the student for each component in either the first or referred attempt (subject to any mark capping in accordance with 4.8.5 above)
b) aggregating, in accordance with their relative weightings, the student’s assessment
components marks (the ‘weighted average’).
4.8.8 At Referral, where a student is deferred in one or more referred assessment components and
does not fail any of the referred assessment components, the student will be deferred in the
module pending completion and assessment of the deferred referred assessment (see paragraph 4.10.4 below).
4.8.9 At Referral, where the Referral includes one or more deferred assessment components (see 4.2.10 above) and where a student fails that deferred assessment component and fails to
achieve the module pass mark, the student will fail the module and, in accordance with 4.8.2. b),
will not be permitted a further Referral in the module or that assessment component.
4.8.10 No tuition fees are payable for Referrals; however, the University reserves the right to levy an
administration charge.
4.9 Reassessment: Retake
4.9.1 A Retake gives the student an opportunity to retrieve the failed assessment component(s) of a failed module during the next academic year and requires the student to repeat the module in its
entirety, with attendance, including all assessment components that may have already been
passed. The student will be liable for the appropriate tuition fees.
4.9.2 A Retake will be offered where both of the following conditions are met:
a) where a further attempt is permitted by these regulations; and
b) where the module failure being considered is at Referral (i.e. a student will always have a Referral opportunity before a Retake)
4.9.3 A new module registration is required for each Retake.
4.9.4 At Retake, each assessment component will be awarded a mark in accordance with the mark
scheme stated at Table 7 above. No marks achieved in any assessment components previously undertaken will be carried forward.
4.9.5 At Retake, the overall module mark will be capped at the pass mark (40 in the case of modules at Levels 3, 4, 5 and 6, 50 in the case of modules at level 7).
4.9.6 At Retake, where a student is deferred in one or more of the assessment components, but does not fail any of the assessment components, the student will be deferred in the module pending
completion and assessment of the deferred assessment component.
4.9.7 Where a module to be Retaken is no longer being offered, the student will be required to
undertake an alternative module.
4.9.8 It follows from the requirements of 4.8.2 and 4.9.2 above that a second attempt will always be
undertaken as a Referral, a third attempt will always be undertaken as a Retake, and a fourth attempt will always be undertaken as a Referral.
4.9.9 As additional modules taken as part of a study abroad or placement year do not contribute for the purpose of progression requirements (see paragraph 5.1.2 below) and do not contribute to
any award calculation (see paragraph 7.2.2 below), they are not normally required to be retaken.
However, where such a module is exceptionally retaken, it will not count towards the maximum number of credits that may be taken at that Level (see paragraph 4.7.2 above).
4.10
Deferred Assessment
4.10.1 A student may only be deferred in either an assessment component or the whole module as a result of mitigating circumstances and in accordance with paragraphs 4.2.2 and 4.2.9 above.
4.10.2 Where a student is deferred in either an assessment component or the whole module, it will not count as an attempt at that module and the student will have a right to be assessed as if for the first time (where the deferral was at the first attempt) at the next available opportunity as defined
below.
4.10.3 Where the student is deferred in an assessment component at Assessment Period 2 the student
will normally be permitted to undergo assessment during Assessment Period 3 , which will
normally comprise submission or presentation of the outstanding assessment components (see
paragraph 4.8.3 above). The marks achieved in any assessment components previously passed
will stand and will be carried forward.
4.10.4 Where the student is deferred in an assessment component at Assessment Period 3 the student
will normally be required to undergo assessment at the next assessment opportunity during the
following academic year, without attendance, and a new module registration is not required.
Again, the marks achieved in any assessment components previously passed will stand and will
be carried forward.
4.1.0.5 Where a student is deferred in the whole module, the student will be given an opportunity to
attempt all assessment tasks associated with that module on the next occasion that that module
is delivered, normally during the following academic year. The student will be required to attend all timetabled teaching and learning events associated with that next delivery of the module. Re-attendance in these circumstances shall not count as a further attempt at the module for the
purposes of calculating the maximum permitted number of attempts.
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Assessment
a) Students should ensure that they are familiar with the assessment requirements of each of their modules. This information is available in the published module information.
b) Students should ensure that they comply with these requirements, submit all pieces of coursework, and attempt all examinations.
c) Students should be aware that if they undertake an assessment or present for an
examination, in doing so they are declaring themselves fit to be assessed. Only in very
exceptional circumstances will mitigating circumstances subsequently be accepted in respect of an assessment that a student has undertaken.
d) Students should ensure that they are available for the Referral/Deferral examination period in case they are required to undertake a Referral or a Deferral.
5. Progression
5.1 Full-Time Courses
5.1.1 Where a student is permitted to progress, this means that the student may progress to the next
level of study and is required to undertake the full complement of credits at the next level as
defined in Table 4 above. E.g. a student on an honours degree course progressing from Level 4 will undertake 120 credits at Level 5 the following academic year.
5.1.2 Additional credits taken as part of a study abroad or placement year do not contribute to
progression requirements – i.e. such modules do not need to be passed in order to progress to
the next Level. Therefore, all references to credit requirements in these progression regulations
exclude credits taken or achieved as part of such a study abroad or placement year over, which
are over and above the standard 120 credits taken at that Level.
5.1.3 Students may progress to the next level of study provided that they have achieved at least 100
credits (including condoned credits) at the level from which they are seeking to progress, and
provided that they have passed all modules which are pre-requisit es for core modules at the next
level.
5.1.4 Where, by the time of the Referral Progression and Award Board, a student has achieved at least 100 credits at that level and has passed all modules which are pre-requisites for core
modules at the next level, but has not achieved the full 120 credits, and where re-assessment is
permitted by these regulations, the student may progress to the next level of study and will be required to simultaneously undertake the failed or deferred module, as either a Retake, Referral
or Deferral (see paragraphs 4.8, 4.9 and 4.10 above), the following academic year. Such a
student is regarded as a ‘module trailer’ and is trailing that module. Where a module trailer is retrieving that module without attendance (i.e. is not Retaking any module) the student is known
as an ‘assessment only module trailer’. The maximum credit volume of ‘trailed’ modules is
therefore 20 credits, and the maximum number of credits that a student may take in an academic year is therefore 140.
5.1.5 Where, by the time of the Referral Progression and Award Board, due to failure and/or deferral, a
student has not achieved at least 100 credits at that level, or has not passed all modules which are pre-requisites for core modules at the next level, and where re-assessment is permitted by
these regulations, the student is not permitted to progress to the next level and will be required to undertake the failed or deferred modules, as either a Retake, Referral or Deferral (see paragraphs 4.8, 4.9 and 4.10 above), the following academic year. Such a student is known as a
‘module retriever’ and is retrieving those modules. Where a module retriever is retrieving those
modules without attendance (i.e. is not Retaking any module) the student is known as an ‘assessment only module retriever’
5.1.6 Where, by the time of the Referral Progression and Award Board, a student has failed more than
60 credits at that level, the student will not be permitted to progress, will not be permitted any
further attempts, and the student’s enrolment will be terminated by the Progression and Award Board (see paragraph 6 below). The maximum credit volume of modules that can be retrieved by
a ‘module retriever’ is therefore 60 credits.
Table 8, below, details the progression outcomes, as defined by these regulations, for common result profiles. The table does not take into account failure or deferral in modules which are pre-requisites for core modules at the next level.
Table 8 Progression
Volume of
Credit at
Each Level
(at time of Referral
Board)
Pass
(including
condoned
pass) Volume of
Credit at
Each Level
(at time of Referral
Board)
Defer Volume of
Credit at
Each Level
(at time of Referral
Board)
Fail Progression Outcome
120 0 0 Progress
100 20 0 Progress – module trailer
100 0 20 Progress – module trailer
80 40 0 Do not Progress – module retriever
80 20 20 Do not Progress – module retriever
80 0 40 Do not Progress – module retriever
60 60 0 Do not progress – module retriever
60 40 20 Do not progress – module retriever
60 20 40 Do not progress – module retriever
60 0 60 Do not progress – module retriever
40 80 0 Do not progress –module retriever
40 60 20 Do not progress – module retriever
40 40 40 Do not progress – module retriever
40 20 60 Do not progress – module retriever
40 0 80 Exclude
20 100 0 Do not progress – module retriever
20 80 20 Do not progress – module retriever
20 60 40 Do not progress – module retriever
20 40 60 Do not progress – module retriever
20 20 80 Exclude
20 0 100 Exclude
0 120 0 Do not progress – module retriever
0 100 20 Do not progress – module retriever
0 80 40 Do not progress – module retriever
0 60 60 Do not progress – module retriever
0 40 80 Exclude
0 20 100 Exclude
0 0 120 Exclude
5.2 Part-Time Courses
5.2.1 There are no progression requirements for students registered on a part-time course, subject to
the requirements for pre-requisites and the provisions of any course specific regulations.
6. Exclusion on Academic Grounds
6.1 A Progression and Award Board will terminate a student’s enrolment (exclude) on academic grounds
in any of the following circumstances:
i. Where a student has exhausted the maximum permitted number of attempts at a core module, or a module which is a pre-requisite or co-requisite of a core module (see paragraph 4.6.2
above)
ii. Where a student has exhausted the maximum number of credits that may be undertaken at
that level (see paragraph 4.7 above)
iii. Where, following any referral opportunities, a student has failed more than 60 credits at that level (see paragraph 5.1.6 above)
iv. Where a student has exhausted the maximum period of enrolment (see paragraph 3.4.5 above)
6.2 Where a student has been excluded on academic grounds;
i. there shall be no further opportunity for re-admission or re-enrolment on to the same course;
ii. there shall be no automatic right to transfer to another course at the University of Westminster. Excluded students will be required to submit a new application for admissions as per the
published procedure;
iii. any recommendation from the Progression and Award Board to transfer to another course where an exit award is specified in the Programme Specification will not require a new
application for admission.
6.3 Where a student is so excluded, an exit award may be awarded (see paragraph 7.10 below).
7. Awards & Classifications
7.1 Credit Value Requirements for Award
7.1.1 The following Table 9 sets out the awards offered by the University and the maximum and
minimum credit tariffs:
Table 9: Credit Tariffs
Award OfS
Qual.
Level Minimum Total
Credits Minimum Credits Required at each Level to be Eligible for an Award
Integrated Masters 7 480 120 credits at L4
120 credits at L5
120 credits at L6
120 credits at L7
Honours Degree
(Single) 6 360 120 credits at L4
120 credits at L5
120 credits at L6
Honours Degree
(Foundation Year) 6 480 120 credits at L3
120 credits at L4
120 credits at L5
120 credits at L6
Honours Degree
(Joint) 6 360 120 credits at L4
120 credits at L5
120 credits at L6
Including:
at least 100 credits at L5 or higher in each set, of which at least 40 must be at L6
Honours Degree
(Major/Minor) 6 360 120 credits at L4
120 credits at L5
120 credits at L6
Including:
at least 100 credits in the major set at L5 or higher, of which at least 60 must be at L6, and:
at least 60 credits in the minor set at L5 or higher, at least 20 of which must be at L6.
Non-honours degree
(Single) 6 300 120 credits at L4
180 credits at L5 of higher, of which at least 60 must be at L6
Non-honours degree
(Joint) 6 300 120 credits at L4
180 credits at L5 of higher, of which at least 60 must be at L6Including:
At least 80 credits at L5 or higher in each set, of which at least 20 must be at L6.
Non-honours degree
(Major/Minor) 6 300 120 credits at L4
120 credits at L5
60 credits at L6
Including:
at least 100 credits in the major set at L5 or higher, of which at least 40 must be at L6; and:
at least 40 credits in the minor set at L5 or higher, of which at least 20 must be at L6.
Grad Dip 6 120 40 credits at L4, L5 or L6, plus
80 credits at L6
Grad Dip in Law 6 160 160 credits at L6
Grad Cert 6 60 20 credits at L4, L5 or L6, plus
40 credits at L6
Foundation Degree 5 240 120 credits at L4
120 credits at L5
DipHE 5 240 120 credits at L4 or higher
120 credits at L5 or higher
Diploma of Special
Study (DIPSS) 5 40 40 credits at L5
CertHE
4 120 120 credits at L4 or higher
Certificate in
Education Diploma in
Teaching in the
Lifelong Learning
Sector 4 60 120 credits at L4
Foundation Certificate 3 120 120 credits at L3
7.1.2 In order to be considered for an award a student must have achieved the minimum number of
credits at the required levels prescribed in Table 9 above and must have met any additional
requirements detailed in the relevant programme specification. In addition, apprenticeship students will normally be expected to complete all the requirements as set out in the
apprenticeship standard and assessment plan including their End Point Assessment to be eligible for the award.
7.2 Award Calculation
7.2.1 Table 10 below sets out the classification scheme that applies to each award:
Table 10: Award Classification Schemes
Award Award Classifications Scheme Name
Honours Degree 1st / 2:i / 2:ii / 3rd Honours Degree Scheme
Integrated Masters Distinction / Merit / Pass / Fail Distinction Scheme 1
Non-honours degree Distinction / Merit / Pass / Fail Distinction Scheme 2
Foundation Degree
DipHE Distinction / Merit / Pass / Fail Distinction Scheme 3
Grad Dip
Grad Cert
CertHE
Certificate in Education the Lifelong
Learning Sector
Foundation Certificate Distinction / Merit / Pass / Fail Distinction Scheme 4
Diploma of Special Study Pass / Fail Pass / Fail Scheme
7.2.2 Additional credits taken as part of a study abroad or placement year do not contribute to the
calculation of any award classification. Therefore, all references to credits in these award
calculation regulations exclude credits achieved as part of such a study abroad or placement
year over, which are and above the standard 120 credits taken at that Level.
7.3 Honours Degree Scheme67
7.3.1 Where a student has met all the requirements for award, an indicator score will be calculated.
This indicator score will be used to determine the student’s degree classification.
7.3.2 The indicator score will be derived from the best 220 credits at Levels 5 and 6. In order to
determine which are the best 220 credits, two provisional indicator scores will be calculated;
one by disregarding the module with the lowest mark at Level 5, and one by disregarding the module with the lowest mark at Level 6. The higher of the two provisional indicator scores will
become the indicator score. Where the disregarded module has a credit volume of more than
20 credits, for the purpose of calculating the indicator score the mark will be used but with a reduced credit volume. E.g. where that module is a 40- credit module, the mark shall be used
but the module shall be regarded as a 20 -credit module.
7.3.3 Of the best 220 credits, module marks at Level 5 will be weighted one third, and module
marks at Level 6 will be weighted two thirds. Marks will be also weighted according to module
credit volume, such that:
Indicator Score = 1/3 x sum (L5 module mark * credit volume of that module)
sum (level 5 credit volume)
+
6 Continuing level 6 students who did not complete their studies in 2016/17 should refer to Appendix B for details on their
degree classification regulations
7 Current Level 6 students who during the 2016/17 academic year were either on a placement, year abroad, or otherwise
interrupting their studies will have their degree classification determined by the better of the pre-2017/18-degree classification
algorithm or 2017/18 degree classification algorithm, the higher classification will be conferred. Eligible students should refer to
Appendix B for details on the pre-2017/18-degree classification regulations.
2/3 x sum (L6 module mark * credit volume of that module)
sum (level 6 credit volume)
Module marks at Levels 3 and 4 shall not contribute to the degree classification.
7.3.4 Where, as a result of Credit Transfer or RPCL / RPEL (see below), a student does not have
any Level 5 credits, the Level 6 credits will be weighted 100%. All Level 6 credits will be used;
none will be disregarded.
7.3.5 The indicator score shall be rounded to the nearest integer and mapped to the following table
to derive a classification:
Indicator Score Classification
70 – 100 1st Class Honours (1)
60 – 69 2nd Class Honours Upper Division (2:i)
50 – 59 2nd Class Honours Lower Division (2:ii)
40 – 49 3rd Class Honours (3)
7.4 Distinction Scheme 1
7.4.1 Where a student has met all of the requirements for award, an indicator score will be
calculated. This indicator score will be used to determine the candidate’s degree
classification.
7.4.2 The indicator score will be derived from all module marks at Levels 6 and 7. Marks for all modules will be weighted according to module credit volume, such that:
Indicator Score = sum (L6 and L7 module mark * credit volume of that module)
sum (L6 and L7 credit volume)
7.4.3 The indicator score shall be rounded to the nearest integer.
7.4.4 In order to be awarded a Distinction, a candidate must:
i. achieve an indicator score of at least 70, and
ii. have passed all modules at the first attempt
7.4.5 In order to be awarded a Merit, a candidate must:
i. achieve an indicator score of between 60 and 69, and
ii. have passed all modules at the first attempt
7.4.6 All other candidates who have met the requirements for award will be awarded a Pass.
7.5 Distinction Scheme 2
7.5.1 Where a student has met all of the requirements for award, an indicator score will be calculated. This indicator score will be used to determine the candidate’s degree
classification.
7.5.2 The indicator score will be derived from all module marks at Levels 5 and 6. Marks for all modules will be weighted according to module credit volume, such that:
Indicator Score = sum (L5 and L6 module mark * credit volume of that module)
sum (L5 and L6 credit volume)
7.5.3 The indicator score shall be rounded to the nearest integer.
7.5.4 In order to be awarded a Distinction, a candidate must:
i. achieve an indicator score of at least 70, and
ii. have passed all modules at the first attempt
7.5.5 In order to be awarded a Merit, a candidate must:
i. achieve an indicator score of between 60 and 69, and
ii. have passed all modules at the first attempt
7.5.6 All other candidates who have met the requirements for award will be awarded a Pass.
7.6 Distinction Scheme 3
7.6.1 Where a student has met all of the requirements for award, an indicator score will be calculated. This indicator score will be used to determine the candidate’s degree
classification.
7.6.2 The indicator score will be derived from all module marks at Levels 4 and 5. Marks for all
modules will be weighted according to module credit volume, such that:
Indicator Score = sum (L4 and L5 module mark * credit volume of that module)
sum (L4 and L5 credit volume)
7.6.3 The indicator score shall be rounded to the nearest integer.
7.6.4 In order to be awarded a Distinction, a candidate must:
i. achieve an indicator score of at least 70, and
ii. have passed all modules at the first attempt
7.6.5 In order to be awarded a Merit, a candidate must:
i. achieve an indicator score of between 60 and 69, and
ii. have passed all modules at the first attempt
7.6.6 All other candidates who have met the requirements for award will be awarded a Pass.
7.7 Distinction Scheme 4
7.7.1 Where a student has met all of the requirements for award, an indicator score will be
calculated. This indicator score will be used to determine the candidate’s degree classification.
7.7.2 The indicator score will be derived from all module marks at all Levels. Marks for all modules will be weighted according to module credit volume, such that:
Indicator Score = sum (module mark * credit volume of that module)
sum (credit volume)
7.7.3 The indicator score shall be rounded to the nearest integer.
7.7.4 In order to be awarded a Distinction, a candidate must:
i. achieve an indicator score of at least 70, and
ii. have passed all modules at the first attempt
7.7.5 In order to be awarded a Merit, a candidate must:
i. achieve an indicator score of between 60 and 69, and
ii. have passed all modules at the first attempt
7.7.6 All other candidates who have met the requirements for award will be awarded a Pass.
7.8 Pass / Fail Scheme
7.8.1 Where a student has met all of the requirements for award, the candidate will be awarded a Pass.
7.9 Borderline Candidates & Discretion
7.9.1 The arithmetical outcome of the award calculation is final, and the concept of a ‘borderline candidate’ is not recognised by this scheme. Accordingly, Boards of Examiners will not have
discretion to vary the award or award classification derived in accordance with the above
award calculation schemes.
7.9.2 Under no circumstances may an award classification be amended on the basis of mitigating circumstances (see paragraph 4.2.4 above).
7.10 Exit Awards
7.10.1 Where a student:
i. fails to achieve sufficient credits to gain the award for which they are enrolled, and
ii. is excluded on academic grounds or as being ‘timed out’, or for good cause, as adjudged by the Progression and Award Board, has terminated their studies early,
and
iii. has achieved sufficient credits to gain a lower level or lower volume award
the student will be recommended by the Progression and Award Board for that lower award,
provided that the award is offered by the University as specified in the Programme Specification.
7.10.2 Where a student has been awarded an exit award following exclusion from a course regulation 6.2 will apply.
7.11 Aegrotat Awards
7.11.1 A student who completes the full period of study but is unable to complete the requirements
for an award due to serious and unexpected illness or other incapacity may be eligible for an
Aegrotat award. An Aegrotat award is without classification.
7.11.2 An Aegrotat award may only be conferred following application by the student or the student’s
representative. An application, together with supporting evidence, must be submitted to the Progression and Award Board within 12 months of the student’s last date of attendance. The
award will be conferred at the discretion of the Progression and Award Board.
7.12 Posthumous Awards
7.12.1 A student who dies before completing the full period of study or the requirements for an award
may be eligible for a Posthumous award. A Posthumous award may be conferred at the
discretion of the Progression and Award Board.
7.13 Double counting
7.13.1 Once an award has been conferred there will be no further opportunity for assessment or to
attempt to improve the classification of that award or to attempt to gain a higher level or higher volume award. No credit which has contributed to an award may be used to contribute
towards a further award. The only exceptions to this apply to students who progress from a
Foundation Degree to the ‘top-up’ Stage of an honours degree, who may retain their FdA
award.
8. Transfer of Credit
8.1 A student may be awarded credit for prior certificated learning (RPCL) or prior experiential
learning (RPEL) at Levels 3, 4, 5 or 6 in accordance with the requirements set out in table 11
below and with the detailed regulations and procedures set out in Section 4 of the Academic
regulations: RPL Regulations
Table 11: Recognised credit for RPCL or RPEL
Award Maximum Number
of RPCL or RPEL
credits which may
count towards the requirements of the
award Minimum number of credits to be achieved at the
University of Westminster
Foundation Certificate 60 credits 60 credits at L3 or above
CertHE 60 credits 60 credits at L4 or above
DipHE 160 credits 80 credits, including at least 60 credits at L5 or L6
Non-honours Degree 200 credits 100 credits, including at least 80 credits at L5 and/or
L6
Honours Degree 240 credits 60 credits at L6 and 60 credits at L5 or L6
Integrated Masters 240 credits 120 credits at L7, 60 credits at L6, and 60 credits at L5
or L6
Foundation Degree 120 credits 120 credits, including at least 60 credits at L5 or above
8.1.2 The classification of any award will be based only on marks awarded by the University for that
course, and not on marks awarded for transferred or recognised credit.
8.1.3 Credit awarded or recognised in this way will be recorded on the student’s record as generic
RPL credit. Marks will not be recorded.
8.1.4 In accordance with the regulations on double counting, previously acquired credit which has
contributed to a recognised award may not be transferred under this mechanism.
8.1.5 Further detail and procedures for the operation of credit transfer are detailed in Section 4 of
the Academic Regulations: RPL Regulations.
Part 5: Modular frameworks for taught courses
Section 18: Framework for postgraduate taught courses
Scope
18.1 These regulations are applicable to all taught courses leading to a postgraduate award of the
University at level 71. Any courses seeking exemption from these regulations, or from specific
provisions of these regulations, must do so at the point of validation or review, and such
exemption will normally only be granted in order to meet the requirements of external
profes sional bodies.
18.2 These
regulations will also be applicable to all taught postgraduate awards validated by the
University but delivered under a collaborative arrangement with a partner institution, unless
otherwise agreed at the point of validation or in accordance with normal procedures for making any change.
18.3 These
regulations are applicable from the start of the 2017/18 academic session in respect of
students studying at level 7.
General
18.4 The U
niversity uses the Office for Students (OfS) conditions of registration as a reference
point for setting, delivering and maintaining the academic standards of its validated awards. The regulatory framework starts with the premise that qualifications should be awarded on the
basis of achievement of positively defined learning outcomes (demonstrated through
assessment against a standard) rather than duration of study. This applies to all postgraduate awards validated by the University of Westminster, including those delivered by Partner
Institutions.
18.5 All
postgraduate credit bearing awards are expected to align with the UK reference points for
academic standards as set out in the the Office for Students ( OfS) Condition B4: Assessment
and awards . This will be considered by University Validation Panels, who act with delegated
authority from Academic Council when considering proposals for new course validation or for the periodic review of existing awards.
18.6 Where an award has been validated by the University to fulfil the requirements of a
Professional, Statutory or Regulatory Body (PSRB), the University still maintains the
responsibility for the academic standards of that award, even where the PSRB influenc es the
design, approval, monitoring or review of that award.
18.7 All
awards, and consequently the courses that lead to them, will be assigned, at the point of
validation, to a Level of the Sector-recognised standards as published by the Office for
Students (OfS) in accordance with the national system of levels and awards stated in Table 1.
18.8 The A
wards of the University that may be conferred under this scheme are as stated in Table
1 below:
Table 1: The national system of levels and awards as it applies to the University (Level 7
Postgraduate)
1 Integrated Masters awards, although at Level 7, are regarded for many purposes as undergraduate awards and are governed
by the provisions of Undergraduate Framework.
Award Type UoW Award
Master’s degrees MA
MArch
MSc
MBA
LLM
MMus
MFA
MRes
Postgraduate Diploma PgDip
Postgraduate Certificate PgCert
Postgraduate Certificate in
Education PGCE
University Diploma in Special Study UCertSS
University Certificate in Special
Study UDipSS
18.9 To be eligible for an award a student must achieve a specified volume of Credit, at specified
Levels, as detailed in the section ‘Awards and Classifications’. Students achieve Credit by undertaking and satisfactorily completing Modules. Modules are the building blocks of
Courses and Awards.
18.10 Each course is described in detail in the Programme Specification, which must be approved
at the point of validation. The Programme Specification describes, amongst other things, the
structure of the course and the modules which the course comprises, including details of any optional modules. It also describes the pathways that might be available, and the award
title(s) to which the course can lead.
Framework Structure
Modules & Credits
18.11 Each module is described in detail in the Module Descriptor, which must be approved at the
point of validation2. The Module Descriptor describes, inter alia , the structure of the module,
the amount and type of teaching and learning activity, the learning outcomes for that module,
the assessment criteria for that module, the ways in which the module will be assessed, and
the relative weightings of the assessment activities.
18.12 Each module will be assigned a Credit Level and a Credit Volume. Together these constitute
the Credit Value of that module.
18.13 The Credit Level will reflect the depth of learning involved and the intellectual demand of the
module, and will be assigned with reference to the qualification descriptors prescribed by
Office for Students (OfS) in its Sector-recognised standards , and stated below in Table 2:
Table 2: Generic Credit Level Descriptors (source: OfS Sector-recognised standards )
Level Learning accredited at this level will reflect the ability to:
Level 7 A systematic understanding of knowledge, and a critical awareness of current
problems and/or new insights, much of which is at, or informed by, the
forefront of their academic discipline, field of study or area of professional
practice. A comprehensive understanding of techniques applicable to their
own research or advanced scholarship. Originality in the application of
knowledge, together with a practical understanding of how established
techniques of research and enquiry are used to create and interpret knowledge in the discipline. Conceptual understanding that enables the
student to evaluate critically current research and advanced scholarship in the
discipline and to evaluate methodologies and develop critiques of them and,
2 Procedures for approving additional modules or amending existing modules will be contained in the Quality Assurance and
Enhancement Handbook.
where appropriate, to propose new hypotheses. Deal with complex issues
both systematically and creatively, make sound judgements in the absence of
complete data, and communicate their conclusions clearly to specialist and
non-specialist audiences. Demonstrate self-direction and originality in tackling
and solving problems, and act autonomously in planning and implementing
tasks at a professional or equivalent level. Continue to advance their
knowledge and understanding, and to develop new skills to a high l evel.
Level 6 A systematic understanding of key aspects of their field of study, including
acquisition of coherent and detailed knowledge, at least some of which is at, or informed by, the forefront of defined aspects of a discipline. An ability to
deploy accurately established techniques of analysis and enquiry within a
discipline. Conceptual understanding that enables the student to devise and
sustain arguments, and/or to solve problems, using ideas and techniques, some of which are at the forefront of a discipline and to describe and
comment upon particular aspects of current research, or equivalent advanced scholarship, in the discipline. An appreciation of the uncertainty, ambiguity and limits of knowledge. The ability to manage their own learning, and to
make use of scholarly reviews and primary sources (for example, refereed
research articles and/or original materials appropriate to the discipline). Apply
the methods and techniques that they have learned to review, consolidate,
extend and apply their knowledge and understanding, and to initiate and carry
out projects. critically evaluate arguments, assumptions, abstract concepts and data (that may be incomplete), to make judgements, and to frame
appropriate questions to achieve a solution – or identify a range of sol utions –
to a problem. Communicate information, ideas, problems and solutions to
both specialist and non-specialist audiences.
18.14 The Credit Volume will reflect the amount of learning expected for the typical student to
achieve the learning outcomes of that module. The Credit Volume is based on an estimate using the idea of notional hours of learning, which includes not only formal classes and
contact time, but also preparation time, independent study, reading, revision, assessment, the undertaking of course work, online learning, field trips, and all other self-directed learning.
One credit represents 10 notional hours of learning . Credit Volume therefore defines the
module size.
18.15 The standard credit size would normally be multiples of 20. However other sizes may be
permitted, subject to approval at validation.
18.16 Where a programme involves a major project, dissertation module or equivalent, the normal
expectation will be that such a module will have a weighting of 60 or 40 credits although variants may be approved by a University Validation or Review Panel.
18.17 Credit Volumes used by the University are consistent with those used throughout the UK Higher Education sector. Note that across much of the rest of the European Union, and other
collaborating European countries, the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation Scheme
(ECTS) is used. The United States HE sector operates a different credit system again. 20 University of Westminster credits equate to 10 ECTS credits and 5 US credits.
Course Structure
18.18 Students must take modules of prescribed credit volumes, as defined by Table 3 below:
Table 3: Course structures – Levels & Prescribed Credit Values-target awards only (OfS
level 7)
Award Name Volume of
Credit to be
taken Maximum amount of L6 credit to be
included in the award
Masters in Fine
Art 240 credits 20 credits
MArch 240 credits 120 credits
LLM
MA
MSc
MRes
MBA
MMus
Minimum 180
credits
Maximum 240*
credits 30 credits
Postgraduate
Diplomas 120 credits 20 credits
Postgraduate
Certificates 60 credits 20 credits
University
Diploma in
Special Study 40 credits-University
Certificate in
Special Study 20 credits -
*Credits over and above 180 applies only to students undertaking a credits for a placement module as defined by the
Programme Specification for that course. Students on such a course will take 180 credits at the University, and will
then take an additional 60 credits during the placement year. Such additional credits are taken at Level 7 only, and
do not contribute for the purposes of progression requirements (see paragraph 18.113 – 18.114 below) and do not contribute to any award calculation (see paragraph 18.123 below).
18.19 Students may not take more than the stated credit volume at each level except where seeking to recover failed credit (see regulations 18.87 – 18.92 below).
18.20 The Postgraduate framework allows for a maximum of 20 credits at level 6, thus formalising an element of introductory work that some courses might wish to include at the start of the
programme of study.
18.21 Where a taught course incorporates one or more credit level 7 modules with joint teaching at
credit level 6, a student who has successfully completed that module or a direct equivalent as
part of an undergraduate programme of study will nonetheless be required to successfully
complete the postgraduate level assessment. The decision as to whether they are required to
attend the module will be taken by the relevant member of academic staff as part of programme planning.
18.22 Modules can be designated as either core or option according to their importance in enabling students to achieve the learning outcomes for the course as a whole and, where applicable,
meet professional body requirements. Individual modules do not have an intrinsic status as
core, option or elective, but are designated as such in relation to a particular course. It is
therefore possible for a single module to be core in relation to one (or more) course(s) and an
option in relation to another (or other) course(s).
18.23 Core modules are those which serve a fundamental role within the curriculum, and for which
achievement of the credits for that module is essential for the achievement of the named
award. Core modules must therefore be taken, and passed, in order to achieve the named award. They are associated with, and validated as part of, a specific course (or courses), and
are listed as core modules in the programme specification.
18.24 Option modules are those which are in the same subject area as the course of study and are
offered to students in order to provide an element of choice in the curriculum and from which
students are able to select. They are associated with, and validated as part of, a specific
course (or courses), and are listed as option modules in the programme specification.
18.25 The Programme Specification for each course shall list, by Level, all modules which are
available to students on that course, including both core modules and, where applicable,
option modules.
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Module Registration
a) Students are responsible for compiling their programme of study and ensuring that it
complies fully with the framework regulations and with any course specific regulations.
b) Students must register their option module choices by deadlines to be determined annually
and published by the Academic Registrar’s Department. Students should seek advice from
their Campus Registry.
c) In the event that a student fails to register module choices, the University reserves the
right to assign modules on the student’s behalf.
d) Students seeking to change a module registration must do so in accordance with procedures and deadlines determined annually by the Academic Registrar’s Department. Students should seek advice from their Campus Registry.
e) A student will not normally be permitted to change a module selection once delivery of that module has started.
f) Where the procedure for a change of module registration is not followed, or a request is not accepted, the student will remain registered on the module, and will be subject to the assessment requirements of that module.
g) Requests to change a module registration submitted after the published deadline will only be considered where:
i. the module cannot be accommodated within the validated course structure; or
ii. a part-time student has a verified conflict between a selected module and work
obligations; or
iii. the University acknowledges that the published module information is misleading.
Mode of Study
18.26 The Programme Specification, as agreed at the point of validation or review, will state whether a course is available in Full-Time (FT) mode, Part-Time (PT) mode, or both. Where a
course is validated in both FT and PT modes, students must state their intended mode of study at the point of application to the course.
18.27 The normal requirement for each Full-Time year of postgraduate study is 180 credits for a
Master’s degree, 120 credits for a Master’s with Fine Arts, 120 credits for a Postgraduate Diploma and 60 credits for the Postgraduate Certificate with attendance. Any student taking
fewer than 120 credits in an academic year will be regarded as a Part-Time student.
18.28 A student wishing to change mode of study may normally only do so before the start of the next semester.
18.29 With the exception of a module retriever, a student may only undertake a course in the mode
for which that course has been validated.
Enrolment
18.30 Students are required to enrol on a named course of study and must re-enrol annually in
accordance with procedures laid down by the Academic Registrar’s Department. An eligible
student who fails to complete their enrolment by the published deadline will be deemed to
have withdrawn from their course and will normally have their enrolment terminated.
18.31 The maximum periods of enrolment for a course, including any periods of interruption or
suspension, are as stated in Table 4 below:
Table 4: Maximum periods of enrolment3 - target awards only
Course
Standard (Minimum)
Period of Enrolment
Full-Time
(notwithstanding RPEL &
Credit Transfer)
Maximum
Period of
Enrolment (Full-Time
Course) Maximum
Period of Enrolment (Part-Time
Course)
LLM
MA
MSc
MBA MMUS
MRes 1 4 5
LLM with placement year
MA with placement year
MAarch with placement
year
MSc with placement year
MBA with placement year
MMUS with placement
year
MRes with placement
year 2 4 -
MArch 2 4 5
MFA 2 4 5
PgDip 1 2 4
PgCert 1 1 2
University Diploma in
Special Study - - 2
University Certificate in
Special Study - - 2
18.32 Where a student changes mode of study during their course, or transfers into the University in
accordance with RPEL or Credit Transfer regulations, the maximum period of enrolment shall be determined by the Academic Registrar, or nominee, on a pro rata basis.
18.33 The purpose of maximum periods of enrolment is to ensure the currency of knowledge, the
competencies of degree holders and the quality of degrees for the awards we make. An
extension to the maximum period of enrolment may only be granted in exceptional
circumstances and normally for one academic year at the discretion of the Academic
Registrar or nominee. An extension should be requested as soon as it is apparent that one
would be needed or within one month of the publication of results.
18.34 Students who exhaust the relevant maximum period of enrolment without achieving the final
award will, where an extension has not been granted, have their enrolment terminated. Such students may be eligible for an exit award (see regulations 18.132 – 18.133 below).
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Enrolment
a) Students must enrol annually in accordance with procedures determined and notified by
the Academic Registrar’s Department.
b) A student who fails to complete enrolment within two weeks of the prescribed deadline,
without good cause and without informing the University, will be deemed to have
withdrawn from the University and will normally have their enrolment terminated.
c) Students should ensure that they are aware of the maximum period of enrolment for their
desired award, as stated above, and should ensure that they do not exceed this
maximum period.
3 These are the overall time limits for courses with the substantive mode of attendance indicated above. They include any
periods for the suspension of studies or the retrieval of failed modules. The time limit for any programme of study not listed
above shall be determined by the relevant University Validation Panel.
Course Transfers
18.35 A student wishing to transfer from one course to another within the University must do so in accordance with the published procedure and:
a) Must normally do so within the first two weeks of the academic year or, in the case of a continuing student, do so at the end of the academic year .
b) must gain the approval of the Course Leader or nominee of each of the current and proposed course.
18.36 A student transferring to another institution shall be regarded as a withdrawal (see regulations
18.47 – 18.52 below)
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Course Transfers
a) Students wishing to transfer must follow the published procedures, and;
b) Students should be aware that there may be course fee and funding implications following a transfer. Students should contact the Student Advice Service, or the Student Loans Company / Student Finance England as appropriate, for further information. For
students on a Tier 4 visa a transfer may also have implications for the visa. Where
relevant, your Campus Registry will notify Student Finance England and the Home Office
about any transfer.
Interruptions
18.37 An interruption is an extended period of authorised absence from the course.
18.38 A period of interruption may be:
a) taken by a student at that student’s discretion; or
b) required by the University on grounds of the student’s health and/or well-being.
18.39 Where the University wishes to require a student to interrupt on grounds relating to the
student’s health and/or well-being, the procedure as described in the University’s Fitness to
Study Policy shall be observed.
18.40 The University may only require a student to interrupt where the University is satisfied that a
period of interruption is in the best academic interests of the student. Under no circumstances shall such action be taken as a punitive measure.
18.41 Students who seek or are required to interrupt their studies on health grounds will be required to provide evidence, to the satisfaction of the Course Leader or in accordance with the
Fitness to Study Policy, as appropriate, that they are fit to resume their studies before they
rejoin the course.
18.42 An interruption is not to be confused with, or used as a substitute for, deferral of an
assessment due to mitigating circumstances (see regulations 18.58 and 18.65)
18.43 An interruption will not normally be permitted for a period of less than one semester.
18.44 Where a student commences a period of interruption once a module has started but before
completing all the assessment requirements for that module, no credit will be awarded and
the student, upon their resumption of studies, will normally be required to re-join at the start of
the uncompleted module(s). Where a student commences a period of interruption once a
module has started but interrupts their studies after the assessment deadlines have passed, the module will be presented to the Progression and Award Board for consideration.
18.45 The maximum period of enrolment (see regulation 18.31 above) includes any periods of interruption.
18.46 During a period of interruption a student is not normally entitled to access any of the
University’s services or systems, including IT, library, workshop or social facilities, beyond
such access that is permitted to members of the public.
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Interruptions
a) Students wishing to interrupt their studies must contact their Campus Registry and complete the appropriate documentation.
b) Students wishing to return to their studies from a period of interruption in accordance with regulation 18.38 ii, must seek permission from their Course Leader, and will be required to demonstrate that the personal reasons that necessitated the interruption are
no longer rele vant.
c) Students interrupting their studies should be mindful of the maximum permitted period of enrolment for their course and should be aware that they risk having their enrolment
terminated if they exceed the maximum permitted period.
d) Students should be aware that there may be course fee and funding implications for them following a period of interruption. Students should contact the Student Advice
Service, or the Student Loans Company / Student Finance England as appropriate, for further information. For students on a Tier 4 visa an interruption may also have
implications for your visa. Where relevant, your Campus Registry will notify Student Finance England and the Home Office about any interruption. Students are advised to seek advice from the Student and Academic Services department.
Withdrawals
18.47 Any student who is fully enrolled and absent from their studies without authorisation or good reason for a period of at least two weeks (10 consecutive working course days or more),
including non-attendance of timetabled on-site classes,), may be deemed to have withdrawn
from their course and, at the discretion of the Deputy Registrar (Student Administration), may,
provided that notice and an opportunity for the student to make representations has been
given, have their enrolment terminated.
18.48 A student whose enrolment is so terminated may only be re-instated upon appeal to and at
the discretion of the relevant Head of College, or nominee. There shall be no further right of
appeal.
18.49 A student who wishes to withdraw from their studies should notify the University in accordance with procedures determined annually by the Academic Registrar’s Department.
18.50 Where a student withdraws from their studies before or without completing all of the assessment components for a module, the student will be withdrawn from that module, the
module will not be considered by the Progression and Award Board, and no credit wi ll be
awarded for that module.
18.51 Where a student withdraws from their studies after completing all of the assessment
components for a module, the module will be considered by the Progression and Award Board and credit for that module may be awarded.
18.52 Where a student withdraws from their studies, an exit award may be awarded (see regulations 18.133 and 18.133).
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Engagement & Withdrawal
a) Students are expected to engage fully with their studies. Such engagement includes
regular attendance.
b) Students who are unable to attend due to illness, or other good cause, should notify their Campus Registry at the earliest opportunity.
c) Students who are absent from their course for 10 consecutive working days without
authorisation or without notifying the Campus Registry risk being deemed to have
withdrawn for their studies and consequently having their enrolment terminated.
d) Students who wish to withdraw should notify the University in accordance with published
procedure, and should consult their Campus Registry in the first instance.
e) Students who are withdrawn by the University or who choose to withdraw should make
themselves aware of any financial implications, including liability for the payment of
tuition fees and other costs. Further details can be found in the University’s Financial Regulations, or through seeking advice from the Student and Academic Services
Department.
Assessment
Assessment Structure
18.53 Each module shall comprise one or more summative assessment
4 components. These
assessment components will be clearly stated and detailed in the module descriptor and may only be varied in accordance with the procedures for module modification. Where a module has more than one assessment component, the module descri ptor shall state the relative
weighting of each component.
18.54 With the exception of ‘grade only’ modules (see regulation 18.68 below); each assessment
component will be awarded a mark in the range 0 to 100. All marks awarded for module
components will be integers. The module mark and result will be determined by aggregating the marks awarded to the assessment components (see regulation 18.56 below).
18.55 An assessment component may be defined in the module descriptor as being a qualifying assessment component, with a qualifying mark. A qualifying assessment component is a
component in which the qualifying mark must be reached in order to pass the module.
Marking
Assessment Component Level
18.56 Each assessment component will be assessed against the assessment criteria as published
in the module descriptor for that module and (with the exception of ‘grade only’ modules)
awarded a mark between 0 and 100.
The result of each component will be determined by the mark awarded according to the
following table:
Table 5:
Assessment component mark scheme for modules at Level 6
Mark Range Result
40 - 100 Pass
0 – 39 Fail
0 Defer*
Assessment component mark scheme for modules at Level 7
Mark Range Result
50 - 100 Pass
0 – 49 Fail
0 Defer*
* see regulation 18.57 below
18.57 Where the student has been permitted, as a result of mitigating circumstances, to present an
assessment component at a later date, a mark of 0 is awarded, with a result of ‘Defer’. In
such cases the student will be deferred in that assessment component (see regulation 18.65
below).
4 Summative assessment is assessment whose mark contributes to the module mark and thus to the award. It contrasts with
formative assessment, whose primary purpose is to inform students and staff of the students’ progress and to allow students to
reflect on their work. Formative assessment does not contribute to either the module mark or the award, and thus it is not governed
by the provisions of these regulations.
18.58 All students who submit or present themselves for assessment are, in doing so, declaring
themselves fit to be assessed. This is known as the ‘fit to sit’ policy. A student may only be
deferred in respect of an assessment component that they have undertaken, or in respect of a module for which they have undertaken one or more assessment components, where the
student can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the University, that due to the nature of the
mitigating circumstances the student was not aware that they were not fit to be assessed when deciding to submit or present for assessment.
18.59 Under no circumstances may individual marks be adjusted, at either assessment component, module, or award classification level, on the basis of mitigating circumstances. Where
mitigating circumstances are accepted in accordance with the relevant University policies and
regulations concerning mitigating circumstances and academic appeals, this will result only in
the assessment component in respect of which the mitigating circumstances were submitted
being set aside and a mark of 0 awarded. The student will be deferred in that assessment
component and will have a right to be assessed as if for the first time (where the deferral was
at the first attempt) at the next available opportunity as defined in regulations 18.75 – 18.79
below.
18.60 The University’s Mitigating Circumstances Regulations and Academic Appeal Regulations will
reflect these principles and will detail the procedures that will be applied.
Module Level
18.61 The module pass mark for modules at Level 6 is 40 and for modules at Level 7 is 50.
18.62 The overall module mark achieved by each student shall be calculated by aggregating, in
accordance with their relative weightings, the student’s assessment components marks (the
‘weighted average’). Except where a student fails a qualifying assessment component, a
module may be passed even where one or more assessment components have been failed,
provided that the module pass mark is achieved.
18.63 However, where a student fails to achieve the qualifying mark in a qualifying assessment
component, the module is failed and the overall module mark is capped and recorded at 49 in
the case of modules at Level 7 (i.e. where the weighted average is greater than 49 the
student will be awarded a mark of 49 for the module), or 39 in the case of modules at Level 6
(i.e. where the weighted average is greater than 39 the student will be awarded a mark of
39 for the module).
18.64 Where a student is deferred in one or more assessment components, but has not failed any
assessment components, the student will be deferred in the module pending completion and
assessment of the deferred assessment component(s) (see regulations 18.75 – 18.79 below).
This applies even where the overall module pass mark has been achieved.
18.65 Where a student is deferred in one or more assessment components but has also failed one
or more assessment components (or failed to reach the qualifying mark in a qualifying
assessment component) and has failed to achieve the overall module pass mark (including
by virtue of failing to achieve the qualifying mark in a qualifying assessment-see regulation
18.63 above), the student will fail the module.
18.66 Where a student is deferred in one or more assessment components but has also failed one
or more assessment components but has achieved the overall module pass mark, the
student will be deferred in the module pending completion and assessment of the
deferred assessment component. In such cases the student will not be re-assessed in the
failed assessment component(s).
18.67 Where a mitigating circumstance claim in respect of a deferral of a module is accepted, the
student will be deferred in the module, and will be given an opportunity to attempt all
assessment tasks associated with that module on the next occasion that that module is delivered, normally during the following academic year.
18.68 ‘Grade only’ modules may be permitted where there is a requirement for modules to be
assessed on a pass/fail basis. These will be clearly identified in the validated programme
specification. Where a module is grade only, no numerical mark is awarded, at either
component or module level, and students can only pass or fail. Such modules will therefore
not count towards the calculation of any award classification.
18.69 The result of each module will be determined by the mark awarded according to the following
table:
Table 6:
Module mark scheme for modules at Level 6
Mark Range Result
40 – 100 Pass
0 – 39 Fail
0 - 100 Defer*
Module mark scheme for modules at Level 7
Mark Range Result
50 – 100 Pass
0 – 49 Fail
0 - 100 Defer*
* see regulation 18.61 above
18.70 All marks, results and indicative grades, both at assessment component level and module
level, are provisional until considered and ratified by the appropriate Progression and Award
Board.
18.71 Where a student passes a module the student will be awarded the volume of credit assigned
to that module. The award of partial credit for a module is not permitted.
18.72 A module that has been passed, and for which credit has been awarded, may not be repeated
in order to improve a mark or gain additional credit.
Condonement
18.73 Condonement is not available for any postgraduate award.
Rounding of Module Marks
18.74 Module marks will not be rounded. The absolute module mark, to the maximum number of decimal places calculated and recorded by the student record system, will be used in the
calculation of the award classification. For the purposes of transcripts and other records of
student achievement, the published module mark will display the whole number and not decimal places.
Timing of Assessment & Progression and Award Boards
18.75 Coursework (i.e. assessment other than formal examinations) shall be completed by the published deadlines.
18.76 All formal examinations shall normally be held during the University’s designated examination period(s).
18.77 Where an incoming exchange / study abroad student is not required or expected, under the
terms of the exchange agreement, to be available during the relevant designated examination
period, alternative assessment arrangements will normally be made to facilitate the student’s assessment prior to the student’s return to their home institution.
18.78 An Assessment Period is a period which culminates with Progression and Award Boards
(PABs) and the publication of results and begins either at the start of the associated
examination period (where the assessment period has an exam period) or otherwise following the final permissible dissertation or coursework submission deadline. There are four
Assessment Periods within the standard postgraduate academic year
18.79 Postgraduate Progression and Award Boards will normally meet four times in each academic
session, at the end of Assessment Period 2, Assessment Period 3 to consider Referral/Deferral results and after Assessment Period 6 following the completion of the project or dissertation. In Colleges where there is a January intake of students Progression
and Award Boards will also meet following Assessment Period 1.
18.80 Students must ensure that they are available during Assessment Period 3 in case they are
required to undertake one or more Referrals/Deferrals.
Failure
18.81 A student who fails a module may, subject to regulations concerning maximum number of
attempts, maximum number of credits, maximum periods of enrolment, and credit thresholds be permitted a further attempt at that module (see regulations 18.82 , 18.9 1 and 18.31).
18.82 No student may be permitted more than four attempts at any module, of which only one may be a Retake. Each Referral and Retake (see regulation 18.85 below) counts as an attempt,
and the module attempt number is incremented accordingly. A student who fails a module at the fourth attempt will have exhausted the maximum number of attempts. Note that where the failed module is Referred and contains one or more deferred assessment components (see
18.65 above), the module attempt number will be incremented however the attempt number of those deferred assessment components will not be incremented.
18.83 No student may be permitted more than two attempts at the Project/Dissertation module. Most
courses will have only one such piece of work. In cases where more than one is included, the
course specific regulations will specify which module is limited to two attempts.
18.84 Notwithstanding regulation 18.81 above, Professional, Statutory or Regulatory bodies may
impose a maximum number of attempts in respect of courses which they accredit. Where that is the case, and where the PSRB’s maximum is lower than the University’s maximum, the PSRB’s requirement shall take precedence over regulation 18.82.
18.85 Where a student is permitted a further attempt, the student is deemed to be re-assessed in
that module.
18.86 Reassessment will take the form of either a Referral or a Retake (see regulations 18.9 4 –
18.111 below).
18.87 In lieu of a Retake, a student may, subject to regulations concerning maximum number of credits, maximum periods of enrolment, and credit thresholds (see regulations 18.82 , 18.9 1
and 18.31), and provided that the failed module is not a core module or pre-requisite for a
core module at a subsequent level, choose to undertake an alternative module (or modules) of the same credit value. In such cases, the alternative module will be regarded as a first
attempt and, consequently, the mark will not be capped.
Maximum Number of Credits That May be Taken at Each level
18.88 The standard number of credits that are to be taken by a student at each level is defined in
Table 4 above. A student may only take more than the stated number of credits at that level when attempting to retrieve failure.
5 Postgraduate courses with approved non-standard structures or calendars may have alternative or
additional assessment periods.
18.89 Where a student Retakes a module (see below) the student is required to re-register for that
module. The credit volume of that module will contribute to the number of credits taken with
the exception of study abroad or placement modules (see paragraph 18. 112 below),
18.90 Similarly, where a student chooses to take an alternative module rather than retaking a failed
module, the credit volume of that module will contribute to the number of credits taken.
18.91 The maximum number of additional credits (i.e. credits over and above the standard number
of credits defined in table 3) is 60.
Therefore, a student is allowed, following failure, to Retake modules, or to take alternative
modules, to a maximum value of 60 credits.
18.92 Where a student exhausts the maximum number of credits that may be taken at that level the student will have their enrolment terminated by the Progression and Award Board (see
regulation 18.117 below).
18.93 Where courses include a 60- credit module, the University will publish advice to warn students
that if they fail the module they may be limited to re-assessment as re-attempting the module
may exceed the maximum number of credits permitted within the framework for postgraduate taught courses
Reassessment: Referral
18.94 A Referral gives the student an opportunity to retrieve the failed assessment component(s) of a failed module without attendance.
18.95 A Referral will be offered where the following conditions are met:
i. where a further attempt is permitted by these regulations; and
In the case of all modules other than final project or dissertation modules:
ii. where the module failure being considered is at first attempt or at Retake (i.e. a
Referral cannot be offered immediately following failure at Referral);
In the case of final project or dissertation modules:
i. where the module failure being considered is at first attempt, and
ii. where the final module mark is at least 40%.
18.96 At Referral, the student will be required to be reassessed in the failed assessment
component(s), or any alternative form of assessment at the discretion of the Progression and
Award Board, provided that it is equivalent, appropriate to the module’s learning outcomes
and consistent with the module’s validated assessment strategy.
18.97 Where the Referral is offered at Assessment Period 2 the student will normally be permitted
to undergo assessment at Assessment Period 3. Where a referral is offered at Assessment
Period 6 the student will normally be permitted to undergo the assessment at Assessment Point 1. A referral will normally comprise submission or presentation of the outstanding
assessment components. A new module registration is not required.
18.98 Where the Referral is the second attempt at the module, the mark awarded to any referred
assessment component will be capped at the pass mark (40 in the case of modules at Level
6, 50 in the case of modules at level 7). Note that where such a Referral also includes one or
more deferred assessment components (see 18.66 and 18.82 above), but those deferred
assessment components are still at the first attempt, the mark awarded to those deferred
assessment components will not be capped. Where the Referral is the fourth attempt at the
module, the overall module mark will be capped at the pass mark (40 in the case of modules
at Level 6, 50 in the case of modules at level 7).
18.99 The marks achieved in any of that module’s assessment components passed at the
preceding Progression and Award Board will stand and will be carried forward.
18.100 At Referral, the overall module mark will be calculated by:
i. using the highest mark achieved by the student for each component in either the first or referred attempt (subject to any mark capping in accordance with 18.96 above)
ii aggregating, in accordance with their relative weightings, the student’s assessment
components marks (the ‘weighted average’).
18.101 Where a student is deferred in a referred assessment component and does not fail any of the
referred assessment components, the student will be deferred in the module pending
completion of the deferred components.
18.102 Where a module result includes both referred and deferred assessment components (see
18.65 above), and the student fails to achieve the module pass mark at reassessment, the student will fail the module and in accordance with 18.95 ii will not be permitted a further
referral in the module or that assessment component.
18.103 No tuition fees are payable for Referrals; however, the University reserves the right to levy an
administration charge.
Reassessment: Retake
18.104 A Retake gives the student an opportunity to retrieve the failed assessment component(s) of
a failed module during the next academic year and requires the student to repeat the module
in its entirety, with attendance, including all assessment components that may have already been passed. The student will be liable for the appropriate tuition fees.
18.105 A Retake will be offered where the following conditions are met:
i. where a further attempt is permitted by these regulations; and
In the case of all modules other than final project or dissertation modules:
ii. where the module failure being considered is at Referral (i.e. a student will always
have a Referral opportunity before a Retake);
In the case of final project or dissertation modules:
iii. where the module failure being considered is at is at first attempt, and
iv. where the final module mark is less than 40%.
18.106 A new module registration is required for each Retake.
18.107 At Retake, each assessment component will be awarded a mark in accordance with the mark
scheme stated at Table 5 above. No marks achieved in any assessment components previously undertaken will be carried forward.
18.108 At Retake, the overall module mark will be capped at the pass mark (40 in the case of modules at Level 6, 50 in the case of modules at level 7).
18.109 At Retake, where a student is deferred in one or more of the assessment components, but
does not fail any of the assessment components, the student will be deferred in the module
pending completion and assessment of the deferred assessment component.
18.110 Where a module to be Retaken is no longer being offered, the student will be required to
undertake an alternative module.
18.111 It follows from the requirements of 18.9 5 and 18.105 above that a second attempt will always
be undertaken as a Referral, a third attempt will always be undertaken as a Retake, and a
fourth attempt will always be undertaken as a Referral.
18.112 As additional modules taken as part of a study abroad or placement year do not contribute for
the purpose of progression requirements and do not contribute to any award calculation (see paragraph 18.125 below), they are not normally required to be retaken. However, where such
a module is exceptionally retaken, it will not count towards the maximum number of credits that may be taken at that Level (see paragraph 18.8 9 above).
Deferred Assessment
18.113 A student may only be deferred in a module as a result of accepted mitigating circumstances and in accordance with regulations 18.57 and 18.65 above.
18.114 Where a student is deferred in either an assessment component or the whole module , it will
not count as an attempt at that module and the student will have a right to be assessed as if
for the first time (where the deferral was at the first attempt) at the next available opportunity
as defined below.
18.115 Where the student is deferred in the assessment component by the Progression and Award
Board the student will normally be permitted to undergo assessment during the next assessment period. A deferral will normally comprise submission or presentation of the
outstanding assessment components. The marks achieved in any assessment components
previously passed will stand and will be carried forward.
18.116 Where a student is deferred in the whole module, the student will be given an opportunity to
attempt all assessment tasks associated with that module on the next occasion that that module is delivered, normally during the following academic year. The student will be required
to attend all timetabled teaching and learning events associated with that next delivery of the
module. Re-attendance in these circumstances shall not count as a further attempt at the
module for the purposes of calculating the maximum permitted number of attempts.
Guidance: Student Responsibilities – Assessment
a) Students ensure that they are familiar with the assessment requirements of each of their modules. This information is available in the published module information.
b) Students should ensure that they comply with these requirements, submit all
assessments, and attempt all examinations.
c) Students should be aware that if they undertake an assessment or present for an
examination, in doing so they are declaring themselves fit to be assessed. Only in very
exceptional circumstances will mitigating circumstances subsequently are accepted in
respect of an assessment that a student has undertaken.
d) Students should ensure that they are available for the next assessment period in case
they undertake a referral or a deferral.
Progression
18.117 There are no progression requirements for students registered on a postgraduate course,
subject to the requirements for pre-requisites and the provisions of any course specific
regulations.
18.118 Progression requirements for Professional Doctorates with a taught element are stated within
Section D in the Research Degree Regulations and the validated Programme Specific
Regulations.
Exclusion on Academic Grounds
18.119 A Progression and Award Board will terminate a student’s enrolment (exclude) on academic
grounds in any of the following circumstances:
i. Where a student has exhausted the maximum permitted number of attempts at a core
module, or a module which is a pre-requisite or co-requisite of a core module (see
regulation 18.82 above)
ii. Where a student has failed more than 60 credits (see regulation 18. 100 above)
iii. Where a student has exhausted the maximum period of enrolment (see regulation 18.31 above)
18.120 Where a student has been excluded on academic grounds;
i. there shall be no further opportunity for re-admission or re-enrolment on to the same
course;
ii. there shall be no automatic right to transfer to another course at the University of
Westminster. Excluded students will be required to submit a new application for
admissions as per the published procedure;
iii. any recommendation from the Progression and Award Board to transfer to another
course where an exit award is specified in the Programme Specification will not
require a new application for admission.
18.121 Where a student is so excluded, an exit award may be awarded (see regulation 18.139
below).
Awards & Classifications
18.122 In order to be considered for an award a student must have achieved the minimum number of
credits as prescribed below and must have met any additional requirements detailed in the relevant programme specification.
18.123 Where a student withdraws from a course the Progression and Award Board will award the
highest intermediate award which the student is eligible to receive. In addition, a classification
may also be awarded.
18.124 Module marks at Levels 6 shall not contribute to the degree classification.
18.125 Where a student has met all the requirements for award, an average mark will be calculated.
This average mark will be used to determine the student’s degree classification. This average
will be rounded to the nearest integer. Where a module has a credit value of more than 20 credits, for the purpose of calculating the classification, the full credit value will be used. E.g.
where a module is a 40 -credit module it will be used twice in the calculation of the average
mark .
18.126 Additional credits taken as part of a placement year do not contribute to the calculation of any
award classification. Therefore, all references to credits in these award calculation regulations exclude credits achieved as part of a placement year, which are and above the standard 180 credits taken.
18.127 In order to be considered for an award a student must have achieved the minimum number of credits at the required levels prescribed in Table 3 above a nd must have met any additional
requirements detailed in the relevant programme specification. In addition, apprenticeship students will normally be expected to complete all the requirements as set out in the
apprenticeship standard and assessment plan, including their End Point Assessment, to be
eligible for the award.
Credit Value Requirements for Award
Award of a University Certificate in Special Study (UCERTSS)
18.128 The University may award a Postgraduate Certificate of Special Study to a student who has
passed a programme of study of at least 20 credits at level 7 approved as such by a
University Validation Panel.
Award of a University Diploma of Special Study (UDIPSS)
18.129 The University may award a Postgraduate Diploma of Special Study to a student who has passed a programme of study of at least 40 credits at level 7 approved as such by a
University Validation Panel.
Award of a Postgraduate Certificate (PgCert)
18.130 To be eligible for the award of a Postgraduate Certificate, a student must have a minimum of
60 credits at level 7 (this may include a maximum of 20 credits at level 6 where validated as
part of the award);
The University may award:
i. a Postgraduate Certificate with Merit to a student whose marks average at least
60% across the modules contributing to the award.
ii. a Postgraduate Certificate with Distinction to a student whose marks average at
least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
Award of a Postgraduate Diploma (PgDip)
18.131 To be eligible for the award of a Postgraduate Diploma, a student must have a minimum of
120 credits at level 7 (this may include a maximum of 20 credits at level 6 where validated as
part of the award);
The University may award:
i. a Postgraduate Diploma with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across the modules contributing to the award.
ii. a Postgraduate Diploma with Distinction to a student whose marks average at
least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
Award of Master’s of Fine Arts (MFA)
18.132 To be eligible for the award of a Master’s of Fine Arts Degree, a student must have obtained a minimum of 240 credits at level 7;
The University may award:
i. a Master’s of Fine Arts Degree with Merit to a student whose marks average at least
60% across modules at level 7;
ii. a Master’s of Fine Arts Degree with Distinction to a student whose marks average
at least 70% across the modules at level 7;
Award of Master’s by Research (MRes)
18.133 To be eligible for the award of a Master’s by Research, a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 180 credits at level 7 (this may include a maximum of 20 credits
at level 6 where validated as part of the award);
ii. attempted modules worth no more than 240 credits (see section 18.32);
iii. attempted no more than 100 credits in taught modules; and
iv. the final project must be a minimum of 80 credits.
The University may award:
v. a Master’s by Research with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across modules at level 7.
vi. a Master’s by Research with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least
70% across the modules at level 7.
Award of an Erasmus Mundus Master’s Degree
18.134 To be eligible for the award of an Erasmus Mundus Master’s Degree, a student must have
obtained a minimum of 240 credits at level 7 (this may include a maximum of 20 credits at level 6 where validated as part of the award);
The University may award:
i. an Erasmus Mundus Master’s Degree with Merit to a student whose marks average
at least 60% across modules at level 7.
ii. an Erasmus Mundus Master’s Degree with Distinction to a student whose marks
average at least 70% across the modules at level 7.
Award of all other Master’s Degrees (LLM, MBA, MA, MArch, MMus, MSc)
18.135 To be eligible for the award of a Master’s Degree, a student must have obtained a minimum of
180 credits at level 7 (this may include a maximum of 20 credits at level 6 where validated as
part of the award);
The University may award:
i. a Master’s Degree with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60% across
modules at level 7;
ii. a Master’s Degree with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least 70%
across the modules at level 7;
Borderline Candidates & Discretion
18.136 The arithmetical outcome of the award calculation is final, and the concept of a ‘borderline
candidate’ is not recognised by this scheme. Accordingly, Progression and Award Board will not have discretion to vary the award or award classification derived in accordance with the
above award calculation schemes.
18.137 Where a student commenced their studies prior to September 2017, the Progression and
Award Board shall consider all students who fall within one percent of the classification boundary for possible elevation to the next classification. This application of discretion by the
Progression and Award Board may be based upon strength elsewhere within the student
profile such as the project or dissertation. Guidance regarding the criteria against which
discretion is considered and agreed at College, School and/or course level, will normally be
detailed within the course handbook.
18.138 Under no circumstances may an award classification be amended on the basis of mitigating
circumstances (see regulation 18.59 above).
Exit Awards
18.139 Where a student:
i. fails to achieve sufficient credits to gain the award for which they are enrolled, and
ii. is excluded on academic grounds or as being ‘timed out’, or for good cause, as
adjudged by the Progression and Award Board, has terminated their studies early,
and
iii. has achieved sufficient credits to gain a lower level or lower volume award
the student will be recommended by the Progression and Award Board for that lower award,
provided that the award is offered by the University as specified in the Programme
Specification.
18.140 Where a student has been awarded an exit award following exclusion from a course regulation 18.118 will apply.
Aegrotat Awards
18.141 A student who completes the full period of study but is unable to complete the requirements
for an award due to serious and unexpected illness or other incapacity may be eligible for an
Aegrotat award. An Aegrotat award is without classification.
18.142 An Aegrotat award may only be conferred following application by the student or the student’s
representative. An application, together with supporting evidence, must be submitted to the
Progression and Award Board within 12 months of the student’s last date of attendance. The award will be conferred at the discretion of the Progression and Award Board.
Posthumous Awards
18.143 A student who dies before completing the full period of study or the requirements for an award
may be eligible for a Posthumous award. A Posthumous award may be conferred at the discretion of the Progression and Award Board.
Double counting
18.144 Once an award has been conferred there will be no further opportunity for assessment or to
attempt to improve the classification of that award or to attempt to gain a higher level or higher volume award. No credit which has contributed to an award may be used to contribute
towards a further award.
Transfer of Credit
18.145 A student may be awarded credit for prior certificated learning (RPCL) or prior experiential
learning (RPEL) at Level 7 in accordance with the requirements set out in table 7 below and
with the detailed regulations and procedures set out in Section 4 of the Academic regulations: RPL Regulations.
Table 7: Recognised credit for RPCL or RPEL
Award Maximum Number of
RPCL or RPEL credits which may count towards the
requirements of the
award Minimum number of credits to be
achieved at the University of
Westminster
Postgraduate
Certificate 30 credits 30 credits at credit level 7
Postgraduate
Diploma 60 credits 60 credits at credit level 7
Master’s Degree 90 credits 90 credits at credit level 7
18.146 These minima may be waived in the case of a student who has successfully passed a Postgraduate Diploma and wishes to convert it into a Master’s degree, provided that the case
falls within the RPL Regulations in relation to currency and relevance of the ini tial
qualification.
18.147 The Programme Specification will state the processes by which academic credit for prior
learning will be awarded.
18.148 At the time of awarding specific credit for RPL, a decision must be made as to whether the
marks or grades, in their original or an amended form, will be included on the student record
and so count towards the final award classification.
18.149 If specific RPEL credit is awarded or specific RPCL credit, which has no marks attached, or a
decision has been made not to include marks, consideration of the award of a merit or
distinction will be based on the marks the student achieved within the University's modular scheme.
Part 5: Modular frameworks for taught courses
Section 19: Framework for study abroad and exchange students
Definition of study abroad and exchange students
Definition of exchange students
19.1. Outgoing exchange students are those who are initially enrolled on a University of Westminster
course who then either seek an exchange with an overseas partner institution or are required
as part of a validated course of study to take part in an exchange p rogramme.
19.2. Incoming exchange students are those from an overseas partner institution outside the UK
which the University of Westminster has an official bilateral exchange agreement agreed
through the College, to register for a programme of study for academic credit. The exchange
will normally take place within one particular University of Westminster College or School .
Note:
Incoming exchange students are on a non-fee paying, reciprocal basis (via a bi-lateral
exchange agreement).
Definition of study abroad student
19.3. A study abroad scheme student is defined as a student normally from outside the UK who has been admitted through the Education Abroad Team to register for a programme of study with
the University of Westminster, to gain academic credit. A study abroad student will normally be
able to study any agreed module across the University of Westminster and is required to pay
fees to attend the University.
19.4. For
both study abroad and exchange students, the period of attendance will normally be for one
semester, one academic year or a summer period. The University of Westminster is not responsible for conveying any academic credit which has been awarded to the student’s
“home” institution.
Exchange students
Outgoing
exchange students
19.5. The exchange must be with an approved University of Westminster overseas partner institution.
Note: Where the course specific requirements allow, students can take part in an exchange that
is not through an overseas partner institution but instead through an organisation or enterprise for work experience. This must be agreed by the Course Leader, Head of School (or
equivalent), and Campus Registry who must notify the Outward Mobility Team. Students will be
subject to the same exchange regulations.
19.6. Where the exchange does not form part of a validated programme of study, the Course Leader
must approve the exchange.
Note:
The syllabus of the exchange programme will normally be compared against the syllabus
of the student’s current course of study.
19.7. In order to participate in an exchange programme a student must have been able to progress
from their previous year of study. Course specific regulations may also apply.
Note: If
a student has a result of condoned credit, fail or defer result they may not be eligible to
participate in an exchange. The decision will be at the discretion of the student’s academic
exchange coordinator and the Course Leader . Other factors, such as language skills and
academic references may be taken into account when determining eligibility to participate in an
exchange programme.
19.8. Students may be required to meet the partner institution’s admissions requirements and may reject an application that has been approved by the University of Westminster.
19.9. It is a student’s responsibility to ensure that they have approval for both the exchange and the
modules studied at the partner university. All students must ensure that they have an approved
and signed Learning Agreement before participating in an exchange.
19.10. It is a student’s responsibility to ensure that any changes made to the programme of study
upon arrival at the partner institution have been approved and amended in the Learning
Agreement and that the amended learning agreement is returned to the Registry and the E
Outward Mobility Team within the agreed timeframe. Failure to do this may result in the
modules not counting towards the final degree classification.
19.11. Whilst registered at the partner institution students must comply with the regulations and code of conduct of the partner. An exchange student may also be subject to disciplinary action at the
University of Westminster whilst on exchange.
19.12. Outgoing exchange students from the University of Westminster, who are attending Semester 2 abroad, will normally be eligible for alternative assessment for any formal Semester 1
examinations (normally held at the end of the year). With the agreement of the Course Team,
and Registry Manager examinations may also take place abroad (see 8.18). In determining
this, relevant factors such as time zones will be taken into consideration. However, where professional body requirements are a factor, students may be required to sit for examinations in July.
19.13. On completion of the exchange it is the student’s responsibility to submit their transcript of
results to the Academic Exchange Coordinator and the Outward Mobility Team. Where
applicable grades will be converted in accordance with the University grade conversion tables.
Incoming exchange students
19.14. An undergraduate exchange shall normally be one semester in duration, and no longer than
one academic year.
19.15. A postgraduate exchange (Level 7) shall normally be no longer than one semester.
19.16. Applicants are expected to fulfil the University’s standard entry requirements (see Section 3).
19.17. The programme of study must be approved by the home institution.
19.18. Exchange students must register their full module choices in accordance with the procedures and deadlines determined annually by the Academic Registrar’s Department. The University of
Westminster cannot guarantee students’ first choices of modules; therefo re, students should
also indicate a second preference.
19.19. Students coming on exchange must take the equivalent credit load to a student on a University
of Westminster Course and verify with their home institution that the modules they choose are transferable to their degree course.
19.20. In order to gain University of Westminster academic credit students must attempt all the
assessment prescribed.
19.21. An incoming exchange student who is attending only the first semester at the University of Westminster (September-January), will, in the case of modules with formal examinations, be
entitled to alternative assessment. Students attending semester two, or yearlong will be
expected to attend examinations, if applicable, in order to gain academic credit
19.22. Students who are enrolled on an exchange programme must abide by the University of
Westminster regulations and codes of conduct. Failure to do so may mean a student is subject
to disciplinary action.
Note: It is the student’s responsibility to ensure they are familiar with the University of
Westminster regulations.
19.23. Marks will be confirmed at a Progression and Award Board. Following this a transcript will be issued to the student’s home institution or home address. Marks will appear as percentages (the University of Westminster marks may need to be converted by the student’s home
institution for the purpose of credit transfer).
Action in case of failure
19.24. Exchange students who fail a module will be subject to reassessment for credit in accordance
with the standard University of Westminster regulations. Please refer to Section 17
Undergraduate Framework or Section 18 Postgraduate Framework.
19.25. Condonement is not permitted for exchange students.
19.26. Where an exchange student is asked to resubmit coursework(s) this can normally be done via
the postal system, or electronically via blackboard, although this may not be possible for all
work e.g. practical modules. Students must ensure the coursework arrives at the University of
Westminster before the deadline; a guaranteed form of delivery is therefore advisable.
19.27. Where an exchange student is unable to return to the UK to sit a referred or deferred examination, the student can apply to sit the examination abroad in accordance with the regulations detailed in Section 8 Individual Examination Arrangements
Note: If an exchange student was provided an alternative assessment to an examination for
semester 1, at reassessment a further alternative assessment should be provided.
Study abroad students
19.28. Standard entry requirements exist for the University of Westminster; for example, English
Language qualifications. However, further College or course specific requirements may also exist. Any application must be approved by the Education Abroad Team before acceptance can be confirme d.
19.29. An undergraduate study abroad scheme shall normally be one semester, one academic year or a summer period.
19.30. A postgraduate (level 7) study abroad scheme shall normally be no longer than one semester.
19.31. Students who are enrolled on a study abroad scheme must abide by the University of Westminster regulations and codes of conduct. Failure to do so may mean a student is subject to disciplinary action.
19.32. Students must be fully enrolled by the deadline published by the Education Abroad Team. The University of Westminster cannot guarantee holding a place for a student who has not
completed the enrolment process by this deadline. Any extension to the deadline must be
approved by Education Abroad Team.
19.33. Study Abroad students must register their full module choices in accordance with the
procedures and deadlines determined annually by the Academic Registrar’s Department. The
University of Westminster cannot guarantee students’ first choices of modules; therefore,
students should also indicate a second preference.
19.34. The University of Westminster is not responsible for the awarding of credit in a student’s own institution. Students are responsible for checking the programme of study they have chosen will
be suitable to gain academic credit in their home institution.
19.35. A study abroad scheme student who is attending the first semester only at the University of
Westminster (September-January) will be entitled to undertake an alternative assessment , in
the case of modules with formal examinations. Students attending semester two, or yearlong
will be expected to attend examinations, if applicable, in order to gain academic credit.
Action in case of failure
19.36. Study abroad students who fail a module will be subject to re-assessment for credit in
accordance with the standard University of Westminster regulations. Please refer to Section 17
Undergraduate Framework or Section 18 Postgraduate Framework.
19.37. Condonement is not permitted for study abroad students.
19.38. If a student is asked to resubmit coursework(s) this can normally be done via the postal system, or electronically via blackboard, although this may not be possible for all work e.g. practical
modules. Students must ensure the coursework arrives at the University of Westminster before
the deadline; a guaranteed form of delivery is therefore advisable.
19.39. Where a study abroad student is unable to return to the UK to sit a referred or deferred examination, the student can apply to sit the examination abroad in accordance with the regulations detailed in Section 8 Individual Examination Arrangements
Note: If a study abroad student was provided an alternative assessment to an examination for
semester 1, at reassessment a further alternative assessment should be provided.
Part 6: Conferment for taught courses
Section 20: Regulations for the conferment of awards
Academic awards
20.1. For
the purpose of these regulations, the phrase ‘academic award’ is used to describe all
awards of the University of Westminster other than research degrees and honorary awards
(which are governed by separate regulations available at westminster.ac.uk/doctoral-researchframework).
20.2. The portfolio of current academic awards of the University is detailed within Section 2. The
authority to approve a new academic award rests with the Academic Council of the University,
which will consider proposals in the context of the University’s existing portfolio of awards, the characteristics and level of the proposed award, and the likely demand and recognition thereof.
Conferment
Conferment under collaborative arrangements
20.3. Where the University grants an academic award with one or more other institutions, the
Memorandum of Collaboration shall specify the conferment regulations to be followed, having
due regard to the requirements of the University.
20.4. Where the University has authorised another institution to operate a programme of study
leading to an academic award of the University, Academic Council may authorise the academic
authority of that other institution to confer named awards of the University on its behalf. In such
cases, conferment shall be governed by these regulations or by such other regulations as may
be agreed by Academic Council.
Conditions for conferment
20.5. The authority to confer academic awards on behalf of the University rests with Academic
Council ; such authority may be delegated by Council to another named person or body. No
certificates, records, transcripts or similar may be issued in the name of the University other
than with the prior authorisation of or on behalf of Academic Council.
20.6. An academic award of the University may be conferred only in respect of students registered by
and with the University of Westminster, who have followed an approved programme and
satisfied the academic requirements of the named award (other than in the circumstances
descri bed in 20.4 above).
20.7. An academic award of the University shall be conferred only on the recommendation of a
Progression and Award Board constituted and acting under the University of Westminster
Academic Regulations and any regulations applying specifically to that award, and with the
approval of the duly appointed external examiners.
Conferment procedures
20.8. Academic Council shall agree detailed procedures governing the conferment of awards; no
award may be conferred other than in accordance with these procedures.
20.9. Where a student has not yet fulfilled a legitimate requirement of the University, including the
settlement of any outstanding debt to the University, or to a partner institution at which the student has studied as part of their course scheme at the University of Westminster, the Deputy
Registrar (Student Administration) , or nominee may withhold from the student any academic
award conferred by the University and the student shall not be entitled to confirmation of their
results.
Pass lists
20.10. Conferment shall be processed only on the basis of an approved pass list, signed by the Chair
of the Progression and Award Board or Secretary to the Progression and Award Board and
received formally by the Deputy Registrar (Student Administration) , or nominee. Pass lists shall
be issued from the Student Record System (SRS) for each mode and level of award within a
validated programme of study. The pass list shall contain the full name of each student
recommended for the award, by classification where appropriate, together with a unique
identifier, in the form of the student registration number. The pass list shall be used for formal
notification of results and shall therefore include a disclaimer confirming that the
recommendations are subject to ratification on behalf of Academic Council .
Certification
Certificate
20.11. The University of Westminster shall provide a certificate of award to each person on whom it
confers an academic award. Such certificate shall record:
a) the name of the University;
b) the name of any other organisation with whom the University is collaborating in relation to
the named award;
c) the full name of the student as entered on the University’s Student Record System ; it shall
be the responsibility of the student to ensure that their name is correctly entered;
d) the level of award;
e) the validated title of the programme as approved for the purposes of the certificate;
f) any classification , merit or distinction as appropriate;
g) the date of conferment, which shall be the date on which the recommendation was made
by the Progression and Award Board.
20.12. The certificate shall bear the signature of the Vice-Chancellor of the University, and the
Chairman of the Court of Governors.
20.13. The Student Lifecycle Office shall maintain a record of all academic awards conferred by the University of Westminster.
Record of achievement
20.14. A record of achievement (a transcript) shall be made available to any student who has successfully completed a programme of study leading to an academic award of the University
of Westminster and on fulfilment of all the University’s requirements including the settlement of any outstanding debt to the University or to a partner institution at which the student has
studied as part of their course scheme at the University of Westminster. A record of
achievement shall record:
a) the full name of the student;
b) the dates of the student’s registration;
c) the elements of study successfully completed, with details of title, level, credit value,
grade/mark achieved and date of completion.
20.15. A Student Module Profile shall be made available to any student who is registered for a programme of study leading to an academic award of the University of Westminster as an
indication of academic progression and provisional marks.
20.16. A Diploma Supplement, as a synopsis of their course and the assessment record of the
graduate, shall be made available to any student who has been conferred with an academic
award of the University of Westminster.
20.17. A Higher Education Achievement Record (HEAR) will be available to all undergraduate students who commence their studies from September 2014. The HEAR is a formal degree
transcript that provides a full record of your university achievements, including both academic
and extra-curricular achievement.
Replacement certificates
20.18. The University will replace any certificates incorporating an error, provided that such an error does not arise from any error or omission on the part of the student. It shall be the responsibility
of the student to demonstrate that an error has occurred and to provide such evidence thereof
as the University may reasonably demand. Replacement certificates will not normally be issued in respect of name changes subsequent to the date of conferment.
20.19. A former student whose certificate is lost or accidentally destroyed may request a duplicate from the Academic Registrar’s Department, by completing a declaration form. The University
reserves the right to charge a fee for such provision. An individual may only receive one
duplicate certificate.
Rescinding an award and/or academic credit
20.20. Exceptionally Academic Council may rescind an intermediate or final award or the award of
academic credit including that awarded by RPL, previously conferred in accordance with these regulations. Such a decision may not be delegated to any other person or body, and shall be
taken only after full consultation with the Chair of the Progression and Award Board, the approved external examiner(s) and the Academic Registrar.
20.21. Where it is proposed that an award be rescinded, the individual previously conferred shall be
advised and offered the opportunity to submit an appeal in accordance with Section 10
Academic Misconduct Regulations to the Deputy Registrar (Quality and Standards).
20.22. There shall be no further right of appeal against a decision of Academic Council to rescind an
award.
Awards of other bodies
20.23. The University is also authorised to recommend students for the awards of other bodies. In such cases, the regulations of that other body shall normally apply; where such regulations do
not exist or are silent on any specific point, these regulations will be followed as far as practicable.
20.24. The University holds a Licence Agreement with Edexcel BTEC on whose behalf BTEC awards
are conferred.
Part 7: Definitions
Section 21: Definitions
Academic Calendar: The schedule of learning, teaching, assessment and administrative
activities approved by Academic Council .
Award: T
he academic qualification conferred by the University upon a student
following successful completion of the course.
Assessment Component: An activity or set of activities undertaken by students, which summatively
assess(es) the extent to which a student has met one or more of the
learning outcomes for a module as measured by the assessment criteria,
and against which a mark is awarded. Each module comprises one or more
assessment components.
Assessment Criteria: Description of what a student is expected to do in order to demonstrate that
the learning outcomes have been achieved. Assessment criteria have a
direct relationship to specific learning outcomes.
Attempt: To have ‘ attempted’ a module means to have registered for a module and
not to have submitted a change of module registration form by the
deadline, nor to have suspended studies or withdrawn from a course of
study. If a student decides to withdraw from a module or their course but
does not complete the necessary notification forms by the specified
deadlines they will be deemed to have failed the module and used up one attempt.
Block
Release: Where a student pursues a programme of study comprising a schedule of intensive study periods interspersed with periods of independent study,
practical experience or industrial training
Course: The term ‘course' is used to denote a subject or one or more discipline-based sets of modules having a single or closely-related focus, leading to
a common award and being administered as a single structure.
Condoned
credit: Condonement is a mechanism by which a module can be passed, and
credit can be awarded even where the module pass mark or a qualifying mark, and thus the module learning outcomes, have not been achieved.
Condonement is only available to students undertaking modules at Levels
3 and 4. It is not available at any other level.
Co-requisite: A course specific requirement that students must register to study combinations of specified modules concurrently.
Credit / Credit Volume: A numerical value denoting the amount of learning expected for the typical
student to achieve the learning outcomes of that module. One credit
represents 10 notional learning hours.
Credit Level: A numer i cal value reflecting the depth of learning involved and the
intellectual demand required to meet the learning outcomes of that module.
Credit Value: The combination of the Credit Volume and the Credit Level, the credit value therefore relates to the complexity of the learning outcomes and the
notional time judged necessary to achieve them.
Defer: As a result of mitigating circumstances, to set aside an assessment attempt
and permit the student to be assessed as if for the first time (or second/third time if the assessment to be set aside was already a
second/third attempt).
Dis-requisites Modules may be linked in such a way that registration for a particular
module may not be permitted if a student is currently studying or has
previously studied a module with a similar syllabus which has been designated as a dis-requisite, or which has approved access restrictions.
Enrolment: The process of joining a course, and thus the University. Enrolment refers
to the relationship between a student and their course and the University.
Fail: At assessment component level, a result indicating that the learning
outcomes have not been met;
At module level, a result indicating that credit has not been achieved due to not meeting the learning outcomes.
Learning Outcome: That which needs to be learned or which a student is required to be able to
do as a result of completing the learning process. Learning outcomes are
defined for both modules and courses.
Module: Modules are the building blocks of courses. A module is a discrete, self-contained element of study, which has defined learning outcomes and for
which credit is awarded for meeting those learning outcomes.
Pass: At assessment component level, a result indicating that the assessment criteria relating to that component have been met;
At module level, a result indicating that the learning outcomes defined for
that module have been achieved, and that as a consequence credit has
been awarded;
At course level, for certain award types a result indicating that the learning
outcomes defined for that course have been achieved, and that an award has been / may be conferred.
Pre-requisite: A course specific requirement that students receive credit for a module in order to register for one or more subsequent specified modules in a related
subject.
Programme: The term ‘programme of study' is used to denote an approved set of
modules by which a student may obtain a specified award of the University
Progression: Movement from one Level to the next Level of a course. Progression is
subject to successfully obtaining the required number of credits, at the
required level, and is authorised only by a Progression and Award Board.
Progression Point: The point within a course where a student must meet certain requirements
(obtain a required number of credits, at the required level) in order to
progress to the next Level of the course.
Reassessment: Any opportunity to recover failure, either by Referral or Retake.
Referral: Reassessment, without attendance, of failed assessment components.
Register: The process of joining a module. Registration refers to the relationship
between a student and their modules.
Retake: Reassessment of a whole module, with attendance, usually the following academic year, including assessment components previously passed.
Taught Course: All courses, including distance learning and e-learning courses, which are not Level 8 research courses.
Transcript Issued upon completion of a course, it is the University’s formal record of achievement of modules passed or condoned, percentage marks and total
number of credits awarded to a student. It also confirms the level, title and
classification of the final award.
University: The University of Westminster.
Validation: The arrangements for the validation, re-validation, review and modification
of University of Westminster programmes of study as described in the
University of Westminster Quality Assurance and Enhancement Handbook .
Part 8: Appendices
Appendix A: Undergraduate Award Requirements Pre -2010/11
Condoned credit
The definition and regulation for awarding condoned credit significantly changed in 2010/11 as and
has been adopted over a period of three academic years (2010/11 to 2012/13). However, students
who commenced studies prior to 2010/11, are part-time, module retrievers, or resuming studies after
a period of suspension remain eligible for condoned credit under the pre- 2010/11 regulations as
outline in A17.1 below.
It is the students’ responsibility to ensure that they are familiar with the correct regulation relating to
their level of study.
A17.1 C
ondoned credit
a)Where
a student fails to achieve an overall pass but has been offered and attempted areferral opportunity(s) and achieved an overall mark of at least 30% in a module at Levels 6,the Referral Subject Board may decide at its discretion to award a condoned credit.
Note: The
awarding of a condoned credit will only be considered by a Referral Subject Board,
by which point the student will have had the opportunity to attempt the assessment twice. Insuch cases the recorded module mark will be 39%.
b)A student may only be awarded a condoned credit at the Referral Subject Board, whereapplicable, on the condition that the referral opportunity(s), as offered to the student, hasbeen attempted.
Note: Where a student has not attempted the referral opportunity(s) as offered by a Subject
Board the student will not be eligible for a condoned credit and be expected to retake themodule in question.
c)A student may be awarded condoned credit for no more than 15 credits at each of levels 3, 4,
5 and 6 within a programme of study. Modules with condoned credit awarded in addition tothis must be retrieved in order to be eligible for the specified award .
d)Condoned
credit will count towards any credit limits for specified awards.
Award req uirements
The award requirements detailed within this appendix are specifically for students who commenced
studies prior to 2010/11 only and who are now eligible to complete their studies with an award.
A17.2 General
a)When a student achieves the specified combination of credits for their recorded finalqualification aim, that award will be conferred and there will be no further opportunities toimprove the classification of the award by taking additional credits;
b)Where
a student is no longer able to complete the recorded target qualification aim, the
Conferment Board will award the highest intermediate award which the student is eligible toreceive .
c)A student will normally be entitled to receive not more than one award from a programmewithin the undergraduate modular framewor k.
d) The title of award conferred will be determined by university regulations, course specific
regulations and the programme pursued by the student and may differ from the title of award
when the student first enrolled.
A17.3 Award of a Foundation Certificate (CertFS)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Foundation Certificate , a student must have:
i. obtained at least 120 credits at Credit Level 3 or higher including no more than 15
condoned credits; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Foundation Certificate with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across the best 105 credits;
ii. a Foundation Certificate with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least
70% across the best 105 credits.
A17.4 Award of a Certificate
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 45 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60% across the
modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Certificate with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least 70% across
the modules contributing to the award.
A17.5 Award of a Certificate in Education (CertEd)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate in Education , a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 120 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher including no more than
15 condoned credits; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate in Education with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Certificate in Education with Distinction to a student whose marks average at
least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
A17.6 Award of a Certificate in Education (CertEd) (Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong
Learning Sector)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate in Education a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 120 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, including a minimum of
60 credits at Level 5 or higher; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate in Education (Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning Sector)
with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60% across the modules
contributing to the award;
ii. a Certificate in Education (Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning
Sector)with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least 70% across the
modules contributing to the award.
A17.7 Award of a Certificate of Higher Education (CertHE)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate of Higher Education a student must have:
i. obtained at least 120 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher including no more than 15
condoned credits; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate of Higher Education with Merit to a student whose marks average at
least 60% across the best 105 credits;
ii. a Certificate of Higher Education with Distinction to a student whose marks
average at least 70% across the best 105 credits.
A17.8 Award of Certificate of Special Study
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate in Special Study a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 15 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate of Special Study with Merit to a student whose marks average at least
60% across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Certificate of Special Study with Distinction to a student whose marks average at
least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
A17.9 Award of a Certificate in Special Study in Lifelong Learning
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate in Special Study in Lifelong Learning a student
must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 60 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate in Special Study in Lifelong Learning with Merit to a student whose
marks average at least 60% across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Certificate in Special Study in Lifelong Learning with Distinction to a student
whose marks average at least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
A17.10 Award of a Diploma
a) To be eligible for the award of a Diploma a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 90 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Diploma with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60% across the
modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Diploma with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least 70% across
the modules contributing to the award.
A17.11 Award of a Diploma of Special Study
a) To be eligible for the award of a Diploma of Special Study a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 30 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Diploma of Special Study with Merit to a student whose marks average at least
60% across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Diploma of Special Study with Distinction to a student whose marks average at
least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
A17.1 2 Award of a Diploma of Higher Education (DipHE)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Diploma of Higher Education a student must have:
i. obtained at least 240 credits including:
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 5 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Diploma of Higher Education with Merit to a student whose marks average at least
60% across the best 105 credits at Credit Level 5 or higher;
ii. a Diploma of Higher Education with Distinction to a student whose marks average
at least 70% across the best 105 credits at Credit Level 5 or higher.
A17.1 3 Award of a Foundation Degree (Fd)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Foundation Degree, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 240 credits including:
• a minimum of 30 credits at Level Three or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 90 credits at Level Four or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level Five or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
Relevant Course Scheme; and
iii. attempted modules worth no more than 165 credits at Credit Level 5 or above.
b) The University may award:
i. a Foundation Degree with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across the best 105 credits at Credit Level 5 or higher;
ii. a Foundation Degree with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least
70% across the best 105 credits at Credit Level 5 or higher.
A17.1 4 Award of a Non-Honours Degree
a) To be eligible for the award of a Non-Honours Degree, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 300 credits including:
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than 15 shall be
condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 5 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits
shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 60 credits at Level 6 or higher.
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) To be eligible for the award of a Joint Non-Honours Degree , a student must additionally
have obtained a minimum of 75 credits in each set at Level 5 or higher, including a minimum of 30 credits in each set at Level 6 or higher.
c) To be eligible for the award of a Major/Minor Non-Honours Degree, a student must
additionally have obtained:
• a minimum of 105 credits in the major set at Level 5 or higher, including a minimum of 45 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
• a minimum of 45 credits in the minor set at Level 5 or higher, including a minimum of 15 credits at Level 6 or higher.
d) The University may award:
i. a Non-Honours Degree with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across the best 150 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6;
ii. a Non-Honours Degree with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least
70% across the best 150 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
A17.1 5 Award of an Honours Degree
a) To be eligible for the award of an Honours Degree, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 360 credits including:
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than 15 shall be
condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 5 or higher, of which no more than 15 shall be
condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 6 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits
shall be condoned; and
ii. attempted modules with a maximum value of 330 credits at Level 5 and 6; and
iii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) To be eligible for the award of a Joint Honours Degree, a student must additionally have
obtained a minimum of 90 credits in each set at Level 5 or higher, including a minimum of 45
credits in each set at Level 6 or higher.
c) To be eligible for the award of a Major/Minor Honours Degree, a student must additionally
have obtained:
i. a minimum of 120 credits in the major set at Level 5 or higher, including a minimum of
60 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
ii. a minimum of 60 credits in the minor set at Level 5 or higher, including a minimum of 30
credits at Level 6 or higher.
d) The overall classification for an honours degree shall normally be determined as follows:
i. Any module attempted in addition to the 360 credits required for an Honours Degree
shall be excluded unless the student must pass such modules in order to achieve the
named award. In this circumstance the student will be awarded the next available
award.
ii. Recommended classifications shall be calculated using the following formula:
First Class
Honours: An average of 70% or above in the best 105 credits at
Credit Level 6, with an average of 60% or above in the
next best 105 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
Upper Second
Class Honours: An average of 60% or above in the best 105 credits at
Credit Level 6, with an average of 50% or above in the
next best 105 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
Lower Second
Class Honours: An average of 50% or above in the best 105 credits at
Credit Level 6, with an average of 40% or above in the
next best 105 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
Third Class
Honours: An average of 40% or above in the best 210 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
iii. The Conferment Board shall consider all students whose best 105 credits at Level 6
fall within one percent of the upper classification boundary for possible elevation to the
next classification. This application of discretion by the Conferment Board may be
based upon strength elsewhere within the student profile such as a work placement or
final year project.
Note: Guidance regarding the criteria, against which discretion is considered and
agreed at College, School and/or Course level, will normally be detailed within the course handbook.
e) The Conferment Board will use academic judgement to confirm the final award classification
for each student.
f) All Honours Degree Programmes shall make provision for the following awards:
• Certificate of Higher Education
• Certificate of Higher Education with Distinction
• Diploma of Higher Education
• Diploma of Higher Education with Distinction
• Degree
• Degree with Distinction
• Honours Degree
A17.1 6 Award of a Graduate Certificate
a) To be eligible for the award of a Graduate Certificate, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 60 credits including:
• a minimum of 15 credits at Level 4 or higher which may be; and
• a minimum of 45 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Graduate Certificate with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Graduate Certificate with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least
70% across the modules contributing to the award.
A17.1 7 Award of a Graduate Diploma
a) To be eligible for the award of a Graduate Diploma , a student must have:
i. obtained at least 120 credits including:
• a minimum of 30 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 90 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Graduate Diploma with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Graduate Diploma with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least
70% across the modules contributing to the award.
A17.1 8 Award of an Integrated Master’s (MEng, MSci)
a) To be eligible for the award of an Integrated Master’s, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 480 credits including:
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than 15 shall be condoned; anD
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 5 or higher, of which no more than 15 shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 6 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 7;
ii. attempted modules with a maximum value of 510 credits at Levels 5, 6 and 7; and
iii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. an Integrated Master’s Degree with Merit to a student whose marks average at least
60% across Credit Levels 6 and 7.
ii. an Integrated Master’s Degree with Distinction to a student whose marks average at
least 70% across Credit Levels 6 and 7.
A17.1 9 Award of a Professional Graduate Certificate of Education (PGCE) (Diploma in
Teaching in the Lifelong Learning Sector)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Professional Graduate Certificate of Education a student
must have:
i. obtained at least 120 credits including:
• a minimum of 60 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher; and
• a minimum of 60 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for the
relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Professional Graduate Certificate of Education (Diploma in Teaching in the
Lifelong Learning Sector) with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Professional Graduate Certificate in Education (Diploma in Teaching in the
Lifelong Learning Sector) with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least
70% across the modules contributing to the award.
Part 8: Appendices
Appendix B: Undergraduate Award Requirements – Pre-2017/18
Award requirements
The award requirements detailed within this appendix are specifically for the following students:
•Continuing Level 6 students who did not complete their studies in 2016/17
•Current Level 6 students who during the 2016/17 academic year were either on a placement,
year abroad, or otherwise interrupting their studies will have their degree classificationdetermined by the better of the pre- 2017/18 degree classification algorithm or 2017/18 degreeclassification algorithm, the higher classification will be conferred. Eligible students shouldalso refer to Section 17 Undergraduate Framework regulation 7.2 for the 2017/18 degreeclassification algorithm.
General
B17.1 W
hen a student achieves the specified combination of credits for their recorded final
qualification aim, that award will be conferred and there will be no further opportunities to
improve the classification of the award by taking additional credits;
B17.2 W
here a student is no longer able to complete the recorded target qualification aim, the
Conferment Board will award the highest intermediate award which the student is eligible to
receive.
B17.3 A
student will normally be entitled to receive not more than one award from a programme
within the undergraduate modular framework
B17.4 T
he title of award conferred will be determined by university regulations, course specific
regulations and the programme pursued by the student and may differ from the title of award
when the student first enrolled.
B17.5 Award of a Foundation Certificate (CertFS)
a)To be eligible for the award of a Foundation Certificate , a student must have:
i.obtained at least 120 credits at Credit Level 3 or higher including no more than 15
condoned credits; andii.satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for therelevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Foundation Certificate with Merit to a student whose marks average atleast 60% across the best 105 credits;
ii. a Foundation Certificate with Distinction to a student whose marks averageat least 70% across the best 105 credits.
B17.6 Award of a Certificate
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 45 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60%
across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Certificate with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least
70% across the modules contributing to the award.
B17.7 Award of a Certificate in Education (CertEd)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate in Education , a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 120 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher including no
more than 15 condoned credits; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate in Education with Merit to a student whose marks average at
least 60% across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Certificate in Education with Distinction to a student whose marks
average at least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
B17.8 Award of a Certificate in Education (CertEd) (Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong
Learning Sector)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate in Education , a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 120 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, including a
minimum of 60 credits at Level 5 or higher; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate in Education (Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning
Sector) with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60% across
the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Certificate in Education (Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning
Sector)with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least 70%
across the modules contributing to the award.
B17.9 Award of a Certificate of Higher Education (CertHE)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate of Higher Education , a student must
have:
i. obtained at least 120 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher including no more than 15 condoned credits; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate of Higher Education with Merit to a student whose marks
average at least 60% across the best 105 credits;
ii. a Certificate of Higher Education with Distinction to a student whose
marks average at least 70% across the best 105 credits.
B17.10 Award of Certificate of Special Study
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate in Special Study a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 15 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate of Special Study with Merit to a student whose marks average
at least 60% across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Certificate of Special Study with Distinction to a student whose marks
average at least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
B17.11 Award of a Certificate in Special Study in Lifelong Learning
a) To be eligible for the award of a Certificate in Special Study in Lifelong Learning a
student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 60 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Certificate in Special Study in Lifelong Learning with Merit to a student
whose marks average at least 60% across the modules contributing to the
award;
ii. a Certificate in Special Study in Lifelong Learning with Distinction to a
student whose marks average at least 70% across the modules contributing
to the award.
B17.12 Award of a Diploma
a) To be eligible for the award of a Diploma a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 90 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Diploma with Merit to a student whose marks average at least 60% across
the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Diploma with Distinction to a student whose marks average at least 70%
across the modules contributing to the award.
B17.13 Award of a Diploma of Special Study
a) To be eligible for the award of a Diploma of Special Study a student must have:
i. obtained a minimum of 30 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher, and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Diploma of Special Study with Merit to a student whose marks average at
least 60% across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Diploma of Special Study with Distinction to a student whose marks
average at least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
B17.14 Award of a Diploma of Higher Education (DipHE)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Diploma of Higher Education, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 240 credits including:
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 5 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Diploma of Higher Education with Merit to a student whose marks
average at least 60% across the best 105 credits at Credit Level 5 or higher;
ii. a Diploma of Higher Education with Distinction to a student whose marks
average at least 70% across the best 105 credits at Credit Level 5 or higher.
B17.15 Award of a Foundation Degree (Fd)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Foundation Degree, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 240 credits including:
• a minimum of 30 credits at Level Three or higher, of which no more
than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 90 credits at Level Four or higher, of which no more
than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level Five or higher, of which no more
than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the Relevant Course Scheme; and
ii. attempted modules worth no more than 165 credits at Credit Level 5 or
above.
b) The University may award:
i. a Foundation Degree with Merit to a student whose marks average at least
60% across the best 105 credits at Credit Level 5 or higher;
ii. a Foundation Degree with Distinction to a student whose marks average
at least 70% across the best 105 credits at Credit Level 5 or higher.
B17.16 Award of a Non-Honours Degree
a) To be eligible for the award of a Non-Honours Degree, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 300 credits including:
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than
15 shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 5 or higher, of which no more than
15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 60 credits at Level 6 or higher.
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) To be eligible for the award of a Joint Non-Honours Degree , a student must
additionally have obtained a minimum of 75 credits in each set at Level 5 or higher,
including a minimum of 30 credits in each set at Level 6 or higher.
c) To be eligible for the award of a Major/Minor Non-Honours Degree, a student must
additionally have obtained:
1. a minimum of 105 credits in the major set at Level 5 or higher, including a minimum of 45 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
2. a minimum of 45 credits in the minor set at Level 5 or higher, including a minimum of 15 credits at Level 6 or higher.
d) The University may award:
i. a Non-Honours Degree with Merit to a student whose marks average at
least 60% across the best 150 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6;
ii. a Non-Honours Degree with Distinction to a student whose marks average
at least 70% across the best 150 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
B17.17 Award of an Honours Degree
a) To be eligible for the award of an Honours Degree, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 360 credits including:
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than 15 shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 5 or higher, of which no more than 15 shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 6 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
ii. attempted modules with a maximum value of 330 credits at Level 5 and 6;
and;
iii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) To be eligible for the award of a Joint Honours Degree, a student must additionally
have obtained a minimum of 90 credits in each set at Level 5 or higher, including a
minimum of 45 credits in each set at Level 6 or higher.
c) To be eligible for the award of a Major/Minor Honours Degree, a student must
additionally have obtained:
• a minimum of 120 credits in the major set at Level 5 or higher, including a minimum of 60 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
• a minimum of 60 credits in the minor set at Level 5 or higher,
including a minimum of 30 credits at Level 6 or higher.
d) The overall classification for an honours degree shall normally be determined as
follows:
i. Any module attempted in addition to the 360 credits required for an Honours
Degree shall be excluded unless the student must pass such modules in
order to achieve the named award. In this circumstance the student will be
awarded the next available award;
ii. Recommended classifications shall be calculated using the following formula:
First Class
Honours: An average of 70% or above in the best 105 credits at
Credit Level 6, with an average of 60% or above in the next best 105 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
Upper Second
Class Honours: An average of 60% or above in the best 105 credits at Credit Level 6, with an average of 50% or above in the next best 105 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
Lower Second
Class Honours: An average of 50% or above in the best 105 credits at
Credit Level 6, with an average of 40% or above in the next best 105 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
Third Class
Honours: An average of 40% or above in the best 210 credits at Credit Levels 5 and 6.
iii. The Conferment Board shall consider all students whose best 105 credits at
Level 6 fall within one percent of the upper classification boundary for
possible elevation to the next classification. This application of discretion by
the Conferment Board may be based upon strength elsewhere within the student profile such as a work placement or final year project.
Note: Guidance regarding the criteria, against which discretion is considered and agreed at College, School and/or Course level, will normally be detailed within the
course handbook.
e) The Conferment Board will use academic judgement to confirm the final
award classification for each student.
f) All Honours Degree Programmes shall make provision for the following awards:
• Certificate of Higher Education
• Certificate of Higher Education with Distinction
• Diploma of Higher Education
• Diploma of Higher Education with Distinction
• Degree
• Degree with Distinction
• Honours Degree
B17.18 Award of a Graduate Certificate
a) To be eligible for the award of a Graduate Certificate, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 60 credits including:
• a minimum of 15 credits at Level 4 or higher which may be; and
• a minimum of 45 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Graduate Certificate with Merit to a student whose marks average at
least 60% across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Graduate Certificate with Distinction to a student whose marks average
at least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
B17.19 Award of a Graduate Diploma
a) To be eligible for the award of a Graduate Diploma , a student must have:
i. obtained at least 120 credits including:
• a minimum of 30 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than 15
credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 90 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Graduate Diploma with Merit to a student whose marks average at least
60% across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Graduate Diploma with Distinction to a student whose marks average at
least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
B17.20 Award of an Integrated Master’s (MEng, MSci)
a) To be eligible for the award of an Integrated Master’s, a student must have:
i. obtained at least 480 credits including:
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 4 or higher, of which no more than 15 shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 5 or higher, of which no more than 15 shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 6 or higher, of which no more than 15 credits shall be condoned; and
• a minimum of 120 credits at Level 7;
ii. attempted modules with a maximum value of 510 credits at Levels 5, 6 and 7;
and
iii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. an Integrated Master’s Degree with Merit to a student whose marks
average at least 60% across Credit Levels 6 and 7.
ii. an Integrated Master’s Degree with Distinction to a student whose marks
average at least 70% across Credit Levels 6 and 7.
B17.21 Award of a Professional Graduate Certificate of Education (PGCE) (Diploma in
Teaching in the Lifelong Learning Sector)
a) To be eligible for the award of a Professional Graduate Certificate of Education, a
student must have:
i. obtained at least 120 credits including:
• a minimum of 60 credits at Credit Level 4 or higher; and
• a minimum of 60 credits at Level 6 or higher; and
ii. satisfied the requirements contained within any course specific regulations for
the relevant Course Scheme.
b) The University may award:
i. a Professional Graduate Certificate of Education (Diploma in Teaching
in the Lifelong Learning Sector) with Merit to a student whose marks
average at least 60% across the modules contributing to the award;
ii. a Professional Graduate Certificate in Education (Diploma in Teaching
in the Lifelong Learning Sector ) with Distinction to a student whose marks
average at least 70% across the modules contributing to the award.
Part 8: Appendices
Appendix C: Outcome classification descriptions
Extract from:. Securing student success: Regulatory framework for higher education in England-Office for Students
An explanation of each classification
Students
are assessed against the learning outcomes of their course and modules, with the
curriculum providing opportunities to develop, practice and achieve the outcomes and demonstrate
the characteristics associated with the level of learning of the stage of study and/or qualification.
Typically, learning outcomes include:
•knowledge and understanding
•cognitive and intellectual skills
•skills and capabilities related to employability
•transferable or key skills
•professional competences, where relevant.
Certain professional courses may include specific professional competence requirements set by PSRBs.
A student's grade or classification is determined by their level of attainment within this basic structure
and their own engagement with the curricula and learning opportunities on offer to enhance their
ability to apply the skills, methods and techniques that they have learned to review, consolidate, extend and apply their knowledge and understanding, and to initiate and carry out projects. Students
are assessed throughout their course according to assessment criteria set at course or module level
in line with generic institutional and sector descriptors and reference points.
Upon awarding a degree, a graduate can be expected to have demonstrated and possess the skills
and attributes attached to their respective classification, as described below.
Detailed descriptors
The following tables present a detailed articulation of how the broad graduate attributes acquired by
students during their course might apply across different skills areas, competences and attributes.
Courses necessarily vary in what and how they assess, according to subject requirements. The
different characteristics may not necessarily be assessed equally-providers are free to design
courses with assessment weighted towards particular skills as they deem appropriate for meeting the
required learning outcomes.
The criteria below present a holistic overview of the level a graduate would be expected to have
reached during their degree. Not all descriptors will apply to all courses to the same extent: for example, numeracy and digital skills may not be as applicable to some arts courses as creativity
skills, while the reverse might be true of some STEM subjects. If some criteria are not applicable to a
given course, they may not need to be referenced.
Outcomes a graduate would be expected to demonstrate for each classification in different areas.
Table 4: Knowledge and understanding
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student's knowledge and
understanding of the subject is
inadequate, without the
required breadth or depth, with
deficiencies in key areas. The student has demonstrated
a depth of knowledge and
understanding in key aspects of
their field of study, sufficient to
deal with terminology, facts and
concepts. The student has demonstrated
a sound breadth and depth of
subject knowledge and
understanding, if sometimes
balanced towards the
descriptive rather than the
critical or analytical.
The student has demonstrated
sophisticated breadth and depth
of knowledge and
understanding, showing a clear,
critical insight. The student has shown
exceptional knowledge and
understanding, significantly
beyond the threshold
expectation of a graduate at
this level and beyond what
has been taught.
The student has demonstrated
inadequate understanding of
subject specific theories,
paradigms, concepts and principles, including their
limitations and ambiguities. The student has demonstrated
an understanding of subject
specific theories, paradigms,
concepts and principles. The student has consistently
demonstrated an
understanding of subject-specific theories, paradigms,
concepts and principles as well
as more specialised areas. The student has demonstrated
a thorough understanding of
subject specific theories,
paradigms, concepts and
principles and a sound
understanding of more
specialised areas. The student has demonstrated
an exceptional understanding
of subject-specific theories,
paradigms, concepts and
principles, and in-depth
knowledge, if not mastery of a
range of specialised areas.
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student has not produced
sufficient evidence of
background investigation, analysis, research, enquiry
and/or study. The student has conducted
general background
investigation, analysis,
research, enquiry and/or study
using established techniques,
with the ability to extract
relevant points. The student has conducted
background investigation,
analysis, research, enquiry
and/or study using established
techniques accurately, and can
critically appraise academic
sources.
The student has conducted
thorough background
investigation, analysis,
research, enquiry and/or study
using established techniques
accurately, and possesses a
well-developed ability to
critically appraise a wide range
of sources. The student has conducted
independent, extensive and
appropriate investigation,
analysis, research, enquiry
and/or study well beyond the
usual range, together with
critical evaluation, to advance
work and/or direct arguments.
Table 5: Cognitive skills
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student has displayed an
over-reliance on set sources.
They have not demonstrated
an adequate ability to select and evaluate reading and
research. The student has demonstrated
the ability to select, evaluate
and comment on reading,
research and primary sources. The student has selected,
evaluated and commented on
reading, research and primary
sources, sometimes beyond
the set range. The student has thoroughly
selected, critically
evaluated and commented on
reading, research and primary sources, usually beyond the set
range. The student has demonstrated
an exceptional ability to select,
consider, evaluate, comment
on and synthesise a broad
range of research, primary
sources, views and information
and integrate references.
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student's arguments and
explanations are weak and/or
poorly constructed, and they are
not able to critically evaluate the
arguments of others or consider
alternative views. The student has shown the
ability to devise and sustain an
argument, with some
consideration of alternative
views, and can explain often
complex matters and ideas. The student has argued
logically, with supporting
evidence, and has
demonstrated the ability to
consider and evaluate a range
of views and information. They
have clearly and consistently
explained complex matters and
ideas. The student has demonstrated
the ability to make coherent, substantiated arguments, as well as the ability to consider,
critically evaluate and
synthesise a range of views and information. They have
demonstrated a thorough,
perceptive and thoughtful interp retation of complex
matters and ideas
The student has made
consistent, logical, coherently
developed, and substantiated
arguments, and demonstrated
the ability to systematically
consider, critically evaluate
and synthesise a wide range
of views and information. They
have demonstrated
sophistic ated perception,
critical insight and
interpretation of complex
matters and ideas.
The student has shown a
limited ability to solve problems
and/or make decisions. The student has demonstrated
an ability to solve problems,
applying a range of methods to
do so, and the ability to make
decisions in complex and
unpredictable circumstances. The student has consistently
solved complex problems,
selecting and applying a range
of appropriate methods, and
can make decisions in complex
and unpredictable
circumstances. The student has demonstrated
thorough problem-solving
skills, selecting and justifying
their use of a wide-range of
methods, and can make
decisions in complex and
unpredictable circumstances
with a degree of autonomy.
The student has demonstrated
a wide range of extremely
well-developed problem-solving skills, as well as a
strong aptitude for decision
making with a high degree of
autonomy, in the most
complex and unpredictable
circumstances.
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student has shown little or
no real creativity. The student has produced
some creative work. The student has consistently
demonstrated creativity.
The student has shown a high
level of creativity and originality
throughout their work.
The student has demonstrated
exceptional creative flair and
originality.
Table 6: Practical skills
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student has not
demonstrated sufficient
evidence of discipline specific skills development or application. The student has
demonstrated evidence of
developing and applying
discipline-specific specialist
skills. The student has consistently
demonstrated the
development and informed
application of discipline-specific specialist skills.
The student has
demonstrated a capable and
effective application of
discipline-specific specialist
skills. The student has
demonstrated an
accomplished and innovative
application of discipline-specific specialist skills.
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student has attempted
practical tasks/processes but followed a limited, procedural or mechanistic formula, and
they contain errors, with little or
no independence.
The student has completed
practical tasks and/or
processes accurately and with
a degree of independence. The student has consistently
completed practical
tasks/processes mainly
independently in an accurate,
well-coordinated and proficient
way. The student has performed
practical tasks and/or
processes autonomously, with
accuracy and coordination. The student has
autonomously completed
practical tasks and/or
processes with a high degree
of accuracy, coordination and
proficiency.
The student has demonstrated
a lack of technical, creative and/or artistic skills in most, or
key, areas.
The student has demonstrated
technical, creative and/or
artistic skills. The student has consistently
demonstrated well-developed
technical, creative and/or
artistic skills.
The student has a thorough
command of highly-developed
relevant technical, creative
and/or artistic skills.
The student has a full range
of exceptional technical,
creative and/or artistic skills.
The student has not presented
their research findings clearly or effectively, and their gathering, processing and interpretation of data is unsatisfactory. The student has presented
their research findings, in
several formats, and has
gathered, processed and
interpreted data effectively. The student has consistently
presented their research
findings effectively and
appropriately in many
formats, and has gathered,
processed and interpreted
data efficiently and effectively.
The student has presented
thorough research findings
perceptively and appropriately
in a wide range of formats,
and has gathered, processed
and interpreted a wide range
of complex data efficiently and
effectively.
The student has presented
research findings
perceptively, convincingly and
appropriately in a wide range
of formats, and has gathered,
processed and interpreted a
wide range of complex data
efficiently and effectively.
Table 7: Transferable skills
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student is not able to
sufficiently express ideas and
convey clear meaning verbally,
electronically and/or in writing, uses inaccurate terminology,
with many errors in spelling,
vocabulary and syntax. They have been unable to
demonstrate consistently b asic
numeracy and digital literacy
skills.
The student can communicate
information, ideas, problems
and solutions verbally,
electronically and in writing,
with clear expression and
style. They have also
demonstrated numeracy and
digital literacy skills. The student can consistently
and confidently communicate
information, ideas, problems
and solutions verbally,
electronically and in writing.
They show a clear, coherent,
expressive style, with a range
of vocabulary. They have
consistently demonstrated
strong numeracy and digital
literacy skills.
The student can communicate
information, ideas, problems
and solutions with a high
degree of proficiency verbally,
electronically and in writing.
They have a clear, fluent and
expressive style with
appropriate vocabulary. They
have a high standard of
numer acy and digital literacy
skills.
The student can communicate
information, ideas, problems
and solutions to an
accomplished level verbally,
electronically and in writing.
They have shown an
accurate, fluent, sophisticated
style. They possess
exceptional numeracy and
digital literacy skills .
The student has made
infrequent contributions to
group discussions and/or project work. The student has
demonstrated a capability of making useful contributions to group discussions and/or
project work. The student has consistently
demonstrated the capability to
make coherent and
constructive contributions to
group discussions and/or
project work. The student has
demonstrated the capability to
make strong, valuable
contributions to group
discussions and/or project
work, with an understanding
of team and leadership roles. The student has
demonstrated the capability to
make clear, authoritative and
valuable contributions to
group discussions and/or
project work, with exceptional
teamwork and leadership
skills.
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student has demonstrated
little or no ability to manage
their learning and/or work
without supervision.
The student has shown an
ability to manage their
learning and work with minimal or no supervision. The student has consistently
shown an ability to
systematically manage their
learning, and work without
supervision.
The student has shown a
strong ability to systematically
manage their learning, and
work without supervision.
The student has shown an
exceptional ability to manage
their learning on their own
initiative, and work without
supervision.
The student has not
demonstrated adequate initiative or personal
responsibility. The student has
demonstrated initiative and/or
personal responsibility. The student has consistently
demonstrated initiative and/or
personal responsibility. The student has consistently
demonstrated well-developed
initiative and/or personal
responsibility.
The student has
demonstrated exceptional
initiative and/or personal
responsibility.
The student has shown
little or no ability to reflect on their work. The student has
demonstrated the ability to reflect on their work. The student has consistently
demonstrated a well-developed ability to reflect on
their work. The student has demonstrated
the ability to reflect critically on
their work. The student has
demonstrated an exceptional
ability to reflect critically and
independently on their work.
Table 8: Professional competences
Not successful 3rd (pass or threshold) 2.2 2.1 1st
The student has not
demonstrated achievement of
professional competence when assessed against the
requirements of a
professional, statutory or regulatory body (PSRB).
The student has demonstrated achievement of professional competence when assessed against the requirements of a PSRB.
The student has failed to adhere to the appropriate
rules and/or conventions set by regulators or the industry.
The student has adhered to the appropriate rules and/or conventions set by regulators or the industry.